",\.t that time new possibilities of research were opened by Urey's discovery of the heavy hydrogen isotope 2 Hor deuterium, and by the construct10n of the cyclotron by Lawrence, who m his first mvestigat10ns on nuclear disintoegrations by deuteron beams obtamed a number of new striking effects. "A faithful account of Rutherford's eventful life from childhood till his last days has been written by his old friend from the Montreal penod, A. S. Eve. "A few weeks after the Cavendish Dinner I went up to Manchester to visit one of my recently deceased father's colleagues who was also a close friend of Rutherford.
"A few weeks later, at the Centenary Celebrations for Galvani in Bologna, we learned with sorrow and consternation of Rutherford's death, andIwent at once to England to attend his funeral. "Already Blackett's observations with his ingemous automatic cloud chamber technique had shown that, in the very process investigated in Rutherford's ongmal experiments on artificial nuclear disintegrations, the incident IX-particle remained incorporated in the residual nucleus left after proton escape. "Characteristic of Rutherford's whole attitude was the warm intoerest he took in any one of the many young physicists with whom he came into contact for shorter or longer periods.
"Early in my stay in Manchester m the spnng of 1912 I became convmced that the electronic constitution of the Rutherford atom was governed throughout by the quantum of action. "From the outset it was evident that, on the basis of the Rutherford model, the typical stability of atomic systems could by no means be reconciled with classical principles of mechanics and electrodynamics. "From the very beginmng of his rad10active researches, Rutherford was acutely" "aware of the wide perspectives they opened in several direct10ns. "Great progress both as regards general outlook and experimental technique was initiated in 1933 by the discovery by Frederic Joliot and Irene Curie of so-called artificial f3-radioactivity produced by nuclear transmutations iinto1ated by 1X-ray bombardment.
"In particular, a strong support for the idea of the atomic number as determining the general physical properties of the elements was obtained from spectroscopic investigations by Russell and Rossi of mixtures of ionium and thorium, which pointed to the identity of the optical spectra of these two substances in spite of their different radioactive properties and atomic weights. "In the development of such views, Iwas encouraged not least by discussions." "In the nearly twenty years during which Rutherford, right up to his death, worked with undimmished energy in Cambridge, my wife and I kept in close touch with him and his family.
"In this connection it is interesting that, when after further research especially by Fleck, the radioactive displacement law in its complete form was enunciated a few months later by Soddy working in Glasgow, as well as by Fajans in Karlsruhe, these authors did not recognize its close relation to the fundamental features of Rutherford's atomic model, and Fajans even regarded the change in chemical properties evidently connected with the electron constitution of the atoms as a strong argument against a model according to which the cx- as well as the f3-rays." "In those days, many young physicists from various countries had gathered around Rutherford, attracted by his genius as a physicist and by his unique gifts as a leader of scientific cooperation.
"Less than two years after Rutherford 's death in 1937, a new and dramatic" "development was initiated by the discovery of the fission processes of the heaviest elements by his old friend and collaborator in Montreal, Otto Hahn, workmg m Berlin with Fritz Strassmann. "My views took more definite shape in conversations with Hevesy about the wonderful adventure of those Montreal and Manchester years, in which Rutherford and his collaborators, after the discoveries of Becquerel and Madame Curie, had built up the science of radioactivity by progressively disentangling the succession and interconnections of radioactive disintegrations. "Naturally, to trace in every direction the consequences of the discovery of the atomic nucleus was the centre of interest of the whole Manchester group.
"Of the many young physicists from abroad working m the Cavendish Laboratory in those years, one of the most colourful personalities was Kapitza, whose power of imagmation and talent as a physical engineer Rutherford greatly admired. "On Sundays, Rutherford regularly played golf in the morning with some close" f nds and dined in the evening in Trinity College where he met many eminent flolars and enjoyed discussions on the most different subjects. "Rutherford did not live to see the great technological revolution which was to ensue from his discovery of the atomic nucleus and his subsequent fundamental researches. "So far, the primary object of the discussions within the Manchester group was" .the immediate consequences of the discovery of the atomic nucleus.
"Some of Rutherford's utterances have led to the misunderstanding that he did not fully appreciate the value of mathematical formalisms for the progress of physical science. "The first time I had the great experience of seeing and listening to Rutherford was m the autumn of 1911 when, after my university studies in Copenhagen, I" "was working in Cambridge with J. J. Thomson, and Rutherford came down from" "Manchester to speak at the annual Cavendish Dinner. "Thus, as I later learned, A. Haas had in 1910 attempted, on the basis of Thomson's atomic model, to fix dimensions and periods of electronic motions by" "means of Planck's relation between the energy and the frequency of a harmomc oscillator. "When I turned to Rutherford to learn his reaction to such ideas, he expressed.
"When, in recognition of his posit10n in science Rutherford was given a British peerage, he took a keen intoerest in his new responsibilities as a member of the House of Lords, but there was certainly no change in the directness and simplicity of his behaviour. "When, in the begmning of the nineteen thirties, as an extension to the Cavendish, the Mond Laboratory was created on Rutherford's initiative for the promotion of Kapitza's promising projects, Kapitza wanted in its decorat10n to give expression for his joy in Rutherford's friendship.
"While the explanation of the radioactive disintegrations had to be sought in the intrinsic constitution of the nucleus, it was evident that the ordinary physical and chemical characteristics of the elements manifested properties of the surround ing electron system. "with George Hevesy who distinguished himself among the Manchester group by his uncommonly broad chemical knowledge. "~ R. W. Wood; PhysicalOptics, p. 513 (1911). $,hat the different stationary states correspond to the emission of a different number of Planck's energy-quanta, and that the frequency of the radiation emitted during the passing of the system from a state in which no energy is yet radiated out to one of tile stationary states, is equal to half the frequency of revolution of the electron in tile latter state.
& connexion with the ordinary mode of description. &[ore- over, it appeared to me that the countries which had pioneered in the new technical development might, due to their possibilities of offering valuable informa- tion, be in a special position to take the initiative by a direct proposal of full mutual openness. &foreover the momentary situa- tion would in various respects seem to quite unique possibilities which might be forfeited by a post- ponement awaiting the further development of the war situation and the final completion of the new weapon. 'I contra- dicted' he says-'possibly in rather a spirited manner-because after all I had through Rutherford attained a pretty good knowledge of the processes.
'I made up my mind to get a good grounding in this new field of study by working under Rutherford at Montreal, for Rutherford was already regarded as the leading authority on radium. 'In Montreal everybody without a trace of jealousy recognized Rutherford as the leader of scientific research. 'In his flair for the right approach to a problem as well as in the simple directness of attack he often reminds us of Faraday, but he had two advantages which Faraday did not possess-first exuberant bodily health and energy, and secondly, the opportunity and capacity to direct a band of enthusiastic co-workers. 'The atmosphere in the Rutherford laboratory was most exhilarating.
'Those of us who were honoured by his friendship know that his greatness as a scientist was matched by his greatness as a man. 'Under some conditions', he wrote, 'it might be possible for an electron to combine closely with the hydrogen nucleus (proton) forming a kind of neutral doublet. 'sihe fundamental difficulties opposing a space- the number of nodes in the various characteristic time description of a system of particles in inter- vibrations gives a simple interpretation to the aotmn appear at once from the inevitability of the concept of quantum number which was already gzrposltlon prineiple in the description of the known from the older methods, but at first did nob wiour of individual particles.
'ue that the place within each measuring procedure where this discrimination is made is in both cases largely a matter of convenience. (1 ) Denoting the components parallel to the x y and z-axis of the angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus, considered as a vector, by Px , Py and Pz , we have next Px2 + Py2 + Pz2 = (1 2 )(2m2 )2 , Pz = const. (1) questions, it must be kept in mind that, according to the where E and I are energy and momentum respectively, View taken above, radiation in free space as well as isol- 7 and A the corresponding period of vibration and wave- C 58 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 59 length. (1) where e and m are the charge andthe mass of the electron, and c is the velocity of light.
(10) ch (M + m) n21 n22 If with the aid of this formula we try to find the ratio of the product for the hydrogen spectrum, to that of the hypothetical helium spectrum we get the value 4.00163 which is in complete agreement with the preceding value calculated from the experimental observations. (11) In the quantum theory, however, these considerations cannot be directly applied, since the point representing the state of a system cannot be displaced continuously in the 2sdimensional phase-space, but can lie only on certain surfaces of lower dimensions in this space.
(15) This complicated character of the ensemble of stationary states of atoms of higher atomic number is exactly what was to be expected from the relation between the spectra calculated on the quantum theory, and the decomposition of the motions of the atoms into harmonic oscillations. (2 ) Since the angular momentum is perpendicular to the plane of the orbit, we have further Px + Py + Pz = 0. (2) (n + 12 )2 Fowler interpreted all the observed lines as the hydrogen spectrum sought for. (2) In this formula n1 and n2 are whole numbers, and F1 (n), F2 (n), . (2) It may influence the mechanism of transition between the stationary states, and thereby the relation between the frequency of the radiation and the amount of energy emitted.
(2) That the latter process is followed by the emission of a homogeneous radiation, for which the relation between the frequency and the amount of energy emitted is the one given by Planek's theory. (2) we get by help of the f.orlnula (1) 2w~me~E~ 4~r%ne~E ~ ~h~ W= T~tt~ , co T.~h.~ , 2 a = 27r%~eE " 9 (3) I[ in these expressions we give ~ different values, we get a series of values ibr W, co, and a corresponding to a series of configurations of the system. (21) = 3 00 2 h (n ) (n ) 8 em It is well known that this formula provides a complete explanation of the Stark effect of the hydrogen lines. (23) We see, therefore, that we have obtained a relation between the spectrum and the motion of precisely the same character as in the simple case of the unperturbed hydrogen atom.
(27) t=0 Now we have for the unvaried motion Z X Z X s s s X 0 0 Nk Ik , pk qk dt = pk qk dt = 0 0 1 1 1 where Ik is defined by (21) and where Nk is the number of oscillations performed by qk in the time interval . (28) 0 1 In the special case where the varied motion is an undisturbed motion belonging to the same system as the unvaried motion we get, since E will be constant, E = s X k Ik , 1 (29) Nk where k = is the mean frequency of oscillation of qk be tween its limits, taken over a long time interval of the same order of magnitude as . (3 ) Now we have for the mean values of the rates of variation of Px and Py with the time DPx = eF , Dt DPy = eF .
(3) We thus see that the values for the energy in the stationary states of an atom may be obtained directly from the measurements of the spectrum by means of relation (1). (4) Here E 0 and E 00 represent the energy of the system before and after the emission. (4) could introduce simple rules of calculation for the symbols, which permit a direct quantum theoretical as the general expression for the maximum accur- transcription of the fundamental equations of acy with which two canonically conjugated vari- classical mechanics.
(42) 1 Since for the undisturbed system k = k s , the differences k k s appearing in the last term will, for the perturbed system, be small quantities which will just represent the frequencies of the slow variations which the orbit undergoes in the presence of the external field. (6) = 2 e4 m W Here e is the charge of the electron and m its mass, while W is the work required to remove the electron to infinity. (6) e mn The radiation of light corresponding to a particular spectral line is according to our assumption emitted by a transition between two stationary states, corresponding to two different frequencies of revolution, and we are not justified in expecting any simple relation between these frequencies of revolution of the electron and the frequency of the emitted radiation.
(6) pk qk 0 0 1 Let us now assume that the small variation of the motion is produced by a small external field established at a uniform rate during a time interval , long compared with , so that the comparative increase during a period is very small. (60) I1 = 2 D2 , I2 = 0 In case 2 varies in an oscillating manner with the time, the first integral must be taken over a complete oscillation of this orbital constant, while, if 2 during the perturbations increases or decreases continuously, the integral in the expression for I1 must be taken over an interval of 2, just as the integral in the expression for I2 . (63) This relation, which corresponds to (56), is seen to coincide with (59), since in the present case v2 = 0 and I1 = 22 .
(69) vR = (1 ) = 2 pc Comparing this formula with equation (62) and remembering that, with the approximation in question, p may be replaced by the quantity denoted in 2 by 2 , we see that the frequency of the secular rotation of the orbit will be the same as that which would appear, if the variation of the mass of the electron was neglected, but if the atom was subject to a small external central force the mean value of the potential 1 ) See f. inst. (7) 0 From (6) and (7) it follows that I will remain constant during the slow establishment of the small external field, if the motion corresponding to a constant value of the field is periodic.
(7) = 4K (n00 )2 (n0 )2 This formula represents certain lines which have been known for some time and which had been attributed to hydrogen on account of the great similarity between formulae (2) and (7) since it had never been anticipated that two different substances could exhibit properties so closely resembling each other. (7) R= ch3 The constant R is very accurately known, and is, as I have said before, equal to 109675. (70) = 2 c 2 This is simply shown, however, to be equal to the expression for corresponding to a small attractive force varying as the inverse cube of the distance.
(8 ) v= 2 8 m During the perturbations the electrical centre will thus perform slow harmonic vibrations perpendicular to the direction of the electric force, with a frequency which is proportional to the intensity of the electric field, but, for a given value of F , quite independent of the initial shape of the orbit and its position relative to the direction of the field. (8) =N K 12 22 K is the same constant as in the hydrogen spectrum, and N the atomic number.
(8) n = 3 n n 2 e4 m hK A comparison between the motions determined by these equations and the distinctive states of a Planck resonator may be shown to offer a theoretical determination of the constant K. Instead of doing this I shall show how the value of K can be found by a simple comparison of the spectrum emitted with the motion in the stationary states, a comparison which at the same time will lead us to the principle of correspondence. (9) =N K 22 32 Here again we obtain an expression for the frequency which corresponds to a line in the spectrum which would be emitted by the binding of an electron to a nucleus, whose charge is N e. The fine structure of the hydrogen lines.
(9) n1 n2 ch3 n21 n22 N N By comparing this formula with the formula for Pickerings and Rydbergs series, we see that the observed lines can be explained on the basis of the theory, if it be assumed that the spectrum is due to an electron revolving about a nucleus with a charge 2e, or according to Rutherfords theory around the nucleus of a helium atom. (It was characteristic of Ernest in later life that he was ever ready to assist a known worthy object, and help an unfortunate but deserving student. (Translated from the transcript of the tape recording.)
(n ) (n ) (n ) (n ) (9) If now the numbers n0 and n00 are large in proportion to their difference, we see that by equations (8) this expression may be written approximately, r 2 2 e4 m (n0 n00 ) , (10) Kh3 where represents the frequency of revolution in the one or the other of the two stationary states. (n0 n00 ), is the same as the frequency of one of the harmonic components into which the elliptical motion may be decomposed. ), and of the nucleus as calculated by Rutherford (about 1012 cm.
), the frequency of the lines of many arc spectra can be represented to a close approximation by the Rydberg formula = K (n00 + k00 )2 K (n0 + k0 )2 , (12) where n0 and n00 are integral numbers, K the same constant as in the hydrogen spectrum, while k0 and k00 are two constants belonging to a set characteristic of the element. ), this energy would be many times greater than the energy changes with which we are familiar in ordinary atomic processes. ), we get, putting the centrifugal iorce on an electron equal to the radial force, 2T__ e (E es,~), or e T 2a (n es,). ), where 1 s=.-1 sTr s , = ~ Z cosec For the radial force exerted on an electron by the nucleus and the other electrons we get F= 1~ ,~ dP = - ~e ( E - es,O" of Atoms and Molecules.
)- actions implies a gap in the time description, which1S at blems of the quantum thegy. * In this arrangement, it is therefore ness concerns merely our freedom of handling the clear that a subsequent single measurement measuring instruments, characteristic of the very either of the position or of the momentum of idea of experiment. * The apparent contradiction in from a priori philosophical conceptions, butas * The deductions contained in the article cited may in the authors of the article cited themselves this respect be considered as an immediate consequence emphasizemust be founded on a direct appeal of the transformation theorems of quantum mechanics, which perhaps more than any other feature of the for- to experiments and measurements.
* The same was true of Newton's laws, Maxwell's electromagnetic theory etc. * cal physics the distinction between object and * Just this circumstance, together with the relativistic measuring agencies does not entail any difference invariance of the uncertainty relations of quantum in the character of the description of the phe- mechanics, ensures the compatibility between the argu- mentation outlined in the present article and all exigencies nomena concerned, its fundamental importance of relativity theory.
* geometrical * problem represented by the wave In view of these results, Schrodinger has ex- equationis associated with the so-called co-ordinate pressed the hope that the development of the QBW the number of dimensions of which is equal to wave theory will eventually remove the irrational number of degrees of freedom of the system, element expressed by the quantum postulate and and hence in general greater than the number of the way for a complete description of atomic dimensions of ordinary space. + s s will be different for any two different sets of values for the s, and in the course of time the orbit will cover everywhere dense a certain sdimensional extension.
+ s ws + 1 ,..., s ), (3 ) where the As and s are constants depending on the Is and where the summation is to be extended over all entire values of 1 , . + ts1 vs1 )t (54) +ct1 ,..., ts1 , where the Cs and cs are constants, the former of which, besides on I, depend on the Is only, and where the summation is to be extended over all positive and negative entire values of the ts. , 2ws are denoted as angle variables. , Is ) obtained from (20) by introducing for the s their expressions in terms of the Is given by the equations (21). , Is are defined by (21) and calculated with respect to the set of coordinates just mentioned, and where the s are a set of entire positive numbers without a common divisor.
, Is1 , and the corresponding angle variables may be completely analogous with formula (29) in Part I, holding for an ordinary conditionally periodic system which allows of separation of variables in a fixed set of positional coordinates; just as (65) is analogous to formula (31) representing the displacements of the particles for such a system. , Is1 defined by (53) and on the value of the quantity I, which characterises the corresponding state of the undisturbed system which would appear if the external field vanished at a slow and uniform rate.
, Is1 equal to entire multipla of h, as claimed by the conditions (22), we obtain exactly the same relation between the additional energy E and the small frequencies vk , impressed on the system by the external field, as that which holds between the total energy and the fundamental frequencies in the stationary states of a conditionally periodic system of s 1 degrees of freedom. , Is1 only, if we look apart from small quantities proportional to 2 .
, Is1 respectively, is given by the relation1 ) s1 X E = P I + vk Ik , (66) 1 which coincides with (52) if I = 0, and which will be seen to 1 ) From a comparison with formula (8), holding for the energy difference between two neighbouring states of the undisturbed system, and with formula (52), it will be seen that (66) implies the condition P = + /I, where is the frequency of revolution in the corresponding state of the undisturbed system characterised by the given value of I, and where, in the partial differential coefficient, is considered as a function of I and I1 , . , Ps in such a way that the positional coordinates of the system q1 , .
, because in the present case there will obviously not correspond any stationary state to n2 = 0, since in such a state the electron would collide with the nucleus. , for a more detailed description of the interaction between TE essence of this consideration is the inevitability individuals we cannot restrict ourselves to the facts ex- of the quantum postulate in the estlmation of the possi- pressed by formulae (1) and (2), but must resort to a pro- bilities of measurement. , it will be seen that n2 can only take the values 1, 2, . , n00s are large numbers, and that the differences n0k n00k are small compared with these numbers. , n00s are the numbers which characterise the two stationary states.
, n00s respectively, with the intensities of the radiations of frequencies 1 (n01 n001 )+ +s (n0s n00s ) to be expected on ordinary electrodynamics from the motions in these states; although of course this estimate becomes more uncertain the smaller the values for the ns are. , ns ) is the total energy of a stationary state determined by (22) and if is the frequency of the line corresponding to the transition between two stationary states characterised by nk = n0k and nk = n00k respectively, we have = 1 E(n01 , .
, ns ) under consideration, and on the above principle of the invariance of the a-priori probability for continuous transformations we shall accordingly expect that the a-priori probability of any other state, which can be transformed continuously into one of these states without passing through cases of degeneration, will also be equal to zero. , ns are positive entire numbers, we obtain therefore a set of conditions which form a natural generalisation of condition (10) holding for a system of one degree of freedom. , ns in (22), as would be obtained by application of ordinary statistical mechanics. , ns1 form a set of entire numbers.
, ps , when considered as functions of the Qs and P s, are periodic in every of the Qs with period 2, while the energy of the system depends only on the P s. In analogy with the condition which fixes the angular momentum in Sommerfelds theory of central systems Schwarzschild next puts every of h the P s equal to an entire multiple of . , ps and let the state of the system be represented in a 2s-dimensional phase-space by a point with coordinates q1 , . , ps to introduce a new set of s variables in such a way, that the qs and ps are periodic in every of the new variables with period 1, when they are considered as functions of these variables and of their canonically conjugated momenta.
, ps which represent states for which the value of Ik given by (21) lies between Ik and Ik + Ik , is seen at once to be equal to1 ) W = I1 I2 . , qs , and consequently also the displacements of the particles in any given direction, may be expressed as a function of the time by an s-double infinite Fourier series of the form: X = C1 ,..., s cos 2 (1 1 +. , qs , and let us assume that at the time t = the configuration of the system will to a close approximation be the same as at the time t = 0. , qs , and their conjugated momenta p1 , . , qs , q1 qs obtained by putting this expression equal to an arbitrary constant 1 .
, qs , representing a point within a certain closed s-dimensional extension limited by s pairs of (s 1)-dimensional surfaces corresponding to constant values of the qs equal to the above mentioned limits of oscillation. , qs , so that the stationary states are determined by (22). , qs , we get by means of Hamiltons equations (4), using the coordinates q10 , . , qs = fs (qs0 ), and since a change of coordinates of this type will not affect the values of the expressions (21), it will be seen that the values of the Is are completely determined for a given motion of the system. , qs and corresponding momenta p1 , . , qs and the corresponding canonically conjugated momenta p1 , . , qs are solved by means of the Hamilton-Jacobi partial differential equation, given by formula (17) in Part I.
, qs in such a way that, for some of the coordinates, the conjugated momenta may be considered as functions of the corresponding qs only, so that, for these coordinates, quantities I may be defined by (21) in the same way as for systems for which a complete separation of variables can be obtained. , qs of the perturbed system and their conjugated momenta p1 , . , qs the ps are functions of the corresponding qs only, we may, just as in the case of independent degrees of freedom or in the case of quasiperiodic motion in a central field, form a set of expressions of the type Z Ik = pk (qk , 1 , . , qs used to describe the motion of the system. , qs0 , and the qs which enter in the last term are the same as those in (27). , qs0 which may differ slightly from the set q1 , .
, s ), (20) 1 where Sk is a function of the s constants 1 , . , s , and C are arbitrary constants like 1 , is a total integral of (17), we get, as shown by Hamilton and Jacobi, the general solution of the equations of motion (4) by putting S = t + 1 , 1 S = k , k (k = 2, . , s , but that it will not depend upon 1 . , s , characterising the osculating orbit, will vary slowly with the time. , s , taken over an approximate period of the perturbed motion, may, if we look apart from Downloaded from https://www.holybooks.com 88 small quantities proportional to 2 , be replaced by the values of the corresponding partial differential coefficients of at some moment within this period. , s , the coefficient C1 ,..., s corresponding to a certain set 10 , .
, s , these coefficients will therefore for the perturbed motion, in general, possess small values proportional to the perturbing forces. , s , which characterise the secular perturbations of the shape and position of the orbit, may be obtained by taking mean values on both sides of the equations (44). , s , with the same approximation as for a constant field, will be given by a set of equations of the same form as (46), with t the only difference that is replaced by . , s 1) (53) where the integral is taken over a complete oscillation of k+1 .
, s 1) (67) we see consequently that, for sufficiently small intensity of the external forces, we obtain in the region of large values of n and of the ns a connection between the frequencies of the components of the spectral lines, determined on the quantum conveniently be denoted by w, w1 , . , s a new set of arbitrary constants. , s and t, obtained by introducing for the qs their expressions as 1 ) See f. inst. , s and will vary in a continuous way for the continuous multitude of mechanically possible states corresponding to different sets of values for these constants. , s are a set of positive entire numbers without a common divisor. , s are the numbers entering in formula (23). , s certain coefficients C1 ,..., s in (31) are equal to zero.
, s in such a way, that during the motion every of the s will depend on the corresponding only, while every of the s will oscillate between two fixed limits. , s only and not on the s, the s may, in general, inversely be determined from the values of the Is. , s we look apart from small quantities of the same order as the small oscillations of these constants within a single period. , s we may take a set of values corresponding to some moment within the period to which the mean values on the left sides refer. , s which may be determined for instance from the values of the qs and qs at a given moment. , s will in general undergo variations of the same order of magnitude as the values of these constants themselves.
, s) (1 ) Ik it will be seen that wk increases by one unit while the other ws will come back to their original values if qk describes one oscillation between its limits and the other qs remain constant. , s) (15) where the integrals are taken over a complete period of the different qs respectively, and where n1 , . , s) (19) where t is the time and 1 , . , s) (2 ) when considered as functions of the Is and ws will be periodic functions of every of the ws with period 1. , s) (21) where the integration is taken over a complete oscillation of qk . , s) (4 ) where the energy E is considered as a function of the Is and ws. , s) (4) where E is the total energy considered as a function of the generalised positional coordinates q1 , . , s) (44) where is considered as a function of 1 , .
, s) (46) where the differential symbols on the left sides are written to indicate mean values of the rates of variation of the orbital constants during an approximate period of the perturbed motion. , s) (5 ) where k is a constant, and where k is easily seen to be equal to the mean frequency of oscillation of qk . , s) where T is the kinetic energy of the system considered as a dqk function of the generalised velocities q1 , . , s0 of values for the s is equal to zero in the expressions for the displacements of the particles in every direction. , ts1 , and where the Cs and cs are two sets of constants, the former of which depend only on the values of the quantities I1 , .
, ts1 , are equal to zero, while in the presence of the second external field these coefficients are small quantities proportional to (compare Part I, page 64).1 ) In the preceding con1 ) As regards the degree of definition with which the positions of the new components will be determined, we must be prepared to find that the frequencies of these components are only defined with neglect of small quantities proportional to .
, ts1 , the coefficient C,t1 ,..., ts1 in the expressions for the displacements in every direction will be equal to zero for all motions of the perturbed system, we shall expect that the corresponding transitions between two stationary states will be impossible in the presence of the given external field; and if this coefficient is zero for the displacements of the particles in a certain direction only, we shall expect that the corresponding transitions will give rise to the emission of a radiation which is polarised in a plane perpendicular to this direction.
, vs1 are the same as those which appear in the formula (54), and represent the small frequencies of the secular perturbations of the shape and position of the orbit, the quantity P may be considered as representing the mean frequency of revolution of the particles in their approximately periodic orbit. , vs1 respectively, the formul (65) and (66) are therefore directly obtained, just as the corresponding formul (31) and (29) in Part I. , ws defined by S wk = , (k = 1, . , ws1 may be represented as linear functions of the time within an interval of the same order as /. .+ms s = 0 where the ms are entire numbers and by the introduction of which the expression (31) can be reduced to a Fourier series which is less than s-double infinite.
.+s s )t+c1 ,..., s , (31) where the summation is to be extended over all positive and negative entire values of the s, and where the s are the above mentioned mean frequencies of oscillation for the different qs. .Altogether, the approach towards the problem of Explanation that is embodied in the notion of complementarity suggests itself in our position as conscious beings and recalls forcefully the teaching of ancient thinkers that, in the search for a harmonious attitude towards life, it must never be forgotten that we our selves are both actors and spectators in the drama of existence.
0 0 Now the expression on the left side of this equation is equal to the change in the total energy of the system due to the Downloaded from https://www.holybooks.com 175 establishment of the external field. 0 1 By partial integration of the second term in the bracket this gives: Z E dt = 0 Z X s 0 s X (p0k qk0 ) dt 1 t= p0k qk0 1 . 0 to statistical considerations. 1 American Branch: 32 East 57th Street, New York 22, N.Y. West African Office: P.O. 1 Light and Life Revisited is a great pleasure for me to follow the invitation of my old friend ItMax Delbriick to speak at the inauguration of this new Institute of Genetics at the University of Cologne.
1 To approach this fundamental question it is essential to distinguish between separate atomic processes taking place within small spatial extensions and completed within short time intervals, and the con- stitution and functions of larger structures formed by the agglomeration of molecules keeping together for periods comparable to or exceeding the cycle of cell division. 1 by the bracketing of certain series of elements in the later periods. 1 is further emphasized by taking care that, in spite of the large similarity many elements exhibit, no connecting lines are drawn between two elements which occupy different positions in the system with respect to framing. 1, 10. functions of these quantities obtained by solving (18).
1, and the stability in question is assumed in order to explain not only the inactive chemical properties of these elements but also the characteristic active properties of the immediately preceding or succeeding elements. 1, it has so far not been specified to what use it is intended. 1, of a particle (electron or photon) penetrating through a hole or a narrow slit in a diaphragm placed at some distance before a photographic plate. 1, together form the first period in the system of elements, since helium is the first of the inactive gases. 1, view of these eventualities the situation would seem to a most favourable opportunity for an early initiative from the side which by good fortune has a lead in the efforts of mastering mighty forces of nature hitherto beyond human reach.
1, we must conclude from the theory that the group with 4quanta orbits is finally completed in lutetium (71). 1, where, however, the elements are not arranged in the ordinary way but in a somewhat modified form of a table first given by Julius Thomsen, who has also made important contributions to science in this domain. 1-25; Paper II.Systems Containing Only A Single Nucleus, pp. 1-4 See Introductionto Part I, sect. 10 Dr. N. Bohr on tl~e Con.st~6d~on intensity sufficient for observation ttle space filled with the gas must be very great. 11 ordinary hollow tubes may be that in such tubes the ionization of lmlimn is not so complete as in the star considered or in tile experiments of Fowler, where a strong discharge w~ts sent through a mixture of hydrogen and helium.
1106 ; 1926) suggested To consider an atom as a closed system, as the view that the conception of time itself may we have done above, means to neglect the spon- be essentially statistical in nature. 1114 Niels Bohr "As is well known, Oppenheimer, shortly after his visit to Cambridge, during h'" 18 studies in Gcittingen was among the first who called attention to the phenomen 0 "of particle penetration through potential barriers, which should prove basic fan" "he ingenious explanation of ix-decy by Gamow and . 112 2 offer means of establishing preliminary and non-com- mittal contact. 114, p. 243 ; 1927) the radiation field itself manner as may be done for each elementary wave is included in the closed system under consideration.
115, 483; 1927), in formulation of the quantum laws considered here. 117, ultimate quantum of electricity has found its 258; 1927), which contains a number of instruct- natural position as an expression of the feature of ive examples of the behaviour of wave groups. 12 Dr. N. Bohr on the Constitution substances in question. 13 energy emitted and the frequency of revolution of tlm electron for the different stationary states is given by the equation W=f(r).h,~o, instead of" by the equation (2). 13.6 and 81.3 volts respectively. 15 While there obviously can be no question of a mechanical foundation of the calculations given in this p,~per, it is, how- ever. 16 Dr. N. Bohr on tT~e Co~zstitutlon the passing of the system between different stationary states.
17 1 8 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE For a long time the study of the properties and transformations of substances stood conspicuously apart from the endeavours, character- istic of the approach in physics, to account for the behaviour of the bodies in our surroundings in terms of space and time, and cause and effect. 17 frequency and dimensions of the systems in successive stationary states will diminish without limit if ~" increases. 19 Experiments on the phenomena of X-rays suggest that not only the emission and absorption of radiation cannot be treated by the help of the ordinary electrodynamics, but not even the result of a collision between two electrons of which the one is bound in an atom.
1914, p. 20, K. Schwarzschild has discussed the problem of the effect of the field on the motion of the electron in some detail. 1926), it is possible, in the limit mentioned, by superposition of proper vibrations to construct 7. 1928 Nature Publishing Group Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 587 In the characteristic vibrations of Schrodinger's independently of their being free or bound. 1928 Nature Publishing Group Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 589 The renunciation regarding space-time pictures Here again we meet with the contrast between characterising this treatment WIl))flld seem l;o offer the wave theory superposition principle and the a striking indication of the complementary char- assumption of the individuality of particles with acter of the quantum theory.
2 (27) It is extremely interesting to note that this expression is equal to the change in the angular momentum which the atom suffers in a transition where k varies by unity. 2 (28) We see, therefore, that this condition has obtained direct support from a simple consideration of the conservation of angular momentum during the emission of the radiation. 2 A further illustration of the above considerations of the relation between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation is obtained if we consider a conditionally periodic system subject to the influence of a small perturbing field of force.
2 N e m 2 N e m For each of the stationary states which had previously been denoted by a given value of n, we obtain therefore a set of stationary states corresponding to values of k from 1 to n. Instead of the simple formula (5) Sommerfeld found a more complicated expression for the energy in the stationary states which depends on k as well as n. Taking the variation of the mass of the electron with velocity into account and neglecting terms of higher order of magnitude he obtained 2 2 N 2 e4 m 4 2 N 2 e4 3 1 En,k = 1+ 2+ , (11) n2 h2 h2 c2 4n nk where c is the velocity of light.
2 The result, contained in formula (77), is in agreement with the expression for the total energy in the stationary states, deduced by Epstein and Schwarzschild by means of the general theory of conditionally periodic systems based on the conditions (22). 2 We see thus that is equal to the potential energy relative to the external field, which the system would possess, if the electron was placed at a point, situated on the major axis of the ellipse and dividing the distance 2a between the foci in the ratio 3 : 1.
2 e m The frequency of the radiation emitted by a transition between two stationary states determined in this way for which n0 and n00 are large in proportion to their difference is given by an expression which is the same as that in equation (23), if in this case is the frequency of revolution of the electron in the slowly rotating orbit and represents the frequency of rotation of the major axis. 2 on page 119, but that this state corresponds to a 21 orbit. 2 shows these relations diagrammatically. 2 the sodium spectrum might be described simply as a distorted hydrogen spectrum, whereas according to fig. 2 which is a reproduction of an illustration I have used on a previous occasion (see Essay II, page 46), and which gives a survey of the origin of the sodium spectrum.
2 which represent stationary states corresponding to the same value of the principal quantum number running from right to left, we obtain curves which run from left to right, as is indicated in fig. 2, and especially P. Epstein, Ann. 23 the permanent state of the system which only differ from those given by the equations (3) on p. 5, by exchange of E for E es,~. 24 On the Constitution of Atoms and Molecules.
25 v.f every electron around the centre of its orbit will in the h where h is permanent state of the system be equal ~ to 2~r' IJlar~ck' s constant" ~ In analogy with the considerations on p. 23, we shall assume that a configuration satisfyifig this condition is stable if the total energy of the system is less than in any neigh- bouring Configuration satisfying the simple condition of the angular momentum of the electrons. 2][ Denoting the kinetic energy of an electron by T and neglecting the electromagnetic forces due to the motion of the electrons (see Part lI. 2a and 2b, the velocity of the diaphragm may be disregarded and only a change of momentum Dp between the particle and the diaphragm needs to be taken into consideration.
2an = n2 2 2 , 2 e m n h3 (17) We must further assume that in the stationary states of the unperturbed system the form of the orbit is so far undetermined that the eccentricity can vary continuously. 2b is evidently Df approx= (1/Dt), where t is the time interval during which the shutter leaves the hole open and, thus, represents the latitude in time of the passage of the particle through the diaphragm. 2b, also with a limited radial extension.
2c m If the relativity modifications are taken into account, and if for a moment we would imagine that the nucleus, in addition to its usual attraction, exerted a small repulsion on the electron, proportional to the inverse cube of the distance and equal and opposite to the attraction just mentioned, we would therefore obtain a system for which, with neglect of small quantities of higher order than the square of the ratio between the velocity of the electron and the velocity of light, every orbit would be periodic independent of the initial conditions, and for which consequently the stationary states would be fixed by the single condition I = nh. 3 shows how the square root of the frequency for two characteristic X-ray lines depends on the atomic number.
3 there is not only distortion but also complete disappearance of certain terms of low quantum numbers. 3, it suggests itself to use an experimental arrangement like that shown in Fig. 3. would mean that the average effect of the inner electrons could be described as a repulsion greater than would occur if their total electrical charge were united in the nucleus. 30 THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 31 Rutherford came down from Manchester to speak at the annual Cavendish Dinner. 32 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE In those days, many young physicists from various countries had gathered around Rutherford, attracted by his genius as a physicist and by his unique gifts as a leader of scientific cooperation.
34 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE it is interesting that, when after further research, In this connection especially by Fleck, the radioactive displacement law in its complete form was enunciated a few months later by Soddy working in Glasgow, as well as by Fajans in Karlsruhe, these authors did not recognize its close relation to the fundamental features of Rutherford's atomic model, and Fajans even regarded the change in chemical properties evidently connected with the electron constitution of the atoms as a strong argument against a model according to which the oc- as well as the (3-rays had their origin in the nucleus.
4 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE The group at the Copenhagen Institute was joined in 1922 by Pauli, and two years later by Heisenberg, both pupils of Sommerfeld, and who, most brilliant work. 4, in which the atomic volume is represented as a function of the atomic number. 4, where the solid parts of the apparatus, serving as diaphragms and plateholder, are firmly bolted to a common support. 4. with various values of n correspond for the arc spectra to the spectral terms of hydrogen, for the spark spectra to the terms of the helium spectrum given by formula (7).
44, 239; 1927), which occurs in the quantum- Already the formulation of the relativity argu- theoretical description of the behaviour of atoms ment implies essentially the union of the space- with several electrons, have brought the corre- time co-ordination and the demand of causality spondence interpretation of the spectral laws and characterising the classical theories. 476-502; Paper III.Systems Containing Several Nuclei, pp.
4m Downloaded from https://www.holybooks.com (6 ) 142 On the other hand we have, differentiating (3 ) and introducing (4 ), DPy DPx Px + Py = 0, Dt Dt which together with (5 ) gives D = eF K 2 Py , Dt D = eF K 2 Px , Dt from which we get, by means of (4 ), D2 = e2 F 2 K 2 , Dt2 D2 = e2 F 2 K 2 , Dt2 the solution of which is = A cos 2(vt + a), = B cos 2(vt + b), (7 ) where A, a, B and b are constants, and where, introducing (6 ), we have 3eF eF K = 2 . 5 orbit ; then, from Planck's theory, we migh~ expect that the amount of energy emitted by tim process considered is equal to vh,, where h is Plauck's constant and T an entire number.
5 the levels correspond exactly to those types of orbits which, as seen from the table on page 170, according to the theory will be present in the atoms of these elements. 5), which reproduces the relative size and form of the electron orbits. 5, the electron orbits are marked with the symbol nk, Fig. 5, we see that the possibilities of specifying the state of the particle by measurements on the diaphragm just correspond to the situation described above, where it was mentioned that, after the particle has passed through the diaphragm, we have in principle the choice of measuring either the position of the diaphragm or its momentum and, in each case, to make predictions as to subsequent observations pertaining to the particle.
5, where a diaphragm with a slit is suspended by weak springs from a solid yoke bolted to the support on which also other immobile parts of the arrangement are to be fastened. 5, which refers to elements in the neighbourhood of niton. 5. part in an intimate interaction with other electrons in orbits with the same principal quantum number. 50 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE A terrible shock to us all was the tragic message in 1915 of Moseley's untimely death in the Gallipoli campaign, deplored so deeply by the community of physicists all over the world, and which not least Ruther- ford, who had endeavoured to get Moseley transferred from the front to less dangerous duties, took much to heart.
56 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE The culminating event of this period was Schrodinger's establish- ment in 1926 of a more comprehensive wave mechanics in which the stationary states are conceived as proper solutions of a fundamental wave equation, obtained by regarding the Hamiltonian of a system of electric particles as a differential operator acting upon a function of the coordinates which define the configuration of the system. 580 Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 The Quantum Postulate and the Recent Development of Atomic Theory.!
6 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE appear, however, that all departures from common language and ordinary logic are entirely avoided by reserving the word "phenome- non" solely for reference to unambiguously communicable information, in the account of which the word "measurement" is used in its plain meaning of standardized comparison. 6 represents a part of an arrangement suited for the study of phenomena which, in contrast to those just discussed, involve time coordination explicitly. 6 reproduces one of Stark's well-known photographs of the splitting up of the hydrogen lines. 6. observed lines arising from combinations between the different energy levels which are represented by horizontal lines.
60 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE The element of wholeness, symbolized by the quantum of action and completely foreign to classical physical principles has, however, the consequence that in the study of quantum processes any experi- mental inquiry implies an interaction between the atomic object and the for the characterization of measuring tools which, although essential the phenomena, evades a separate account if the experiment is to serve its purpose of yielding unambiguous answers to our questions. 600, the number scattered, although small, varied roughly according to the square of the atomic weight of the scattering material. 68 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE You can easily appreciate that these results may open up a wide line of research in transmutation generally.
7 gives a diagrammatic representation of the experimental and theoretical results for the line the frequency of which is given by the Balmer formula with n'' = 2 and n' = 5. 7 objections, however, may be raised against the theory. 7 the position of the components corresponds to the frequencies calculated for the different transitions, and the lengths of the lines are proportional to the probabilities as calculated on the basis of the correspondence principle, by which also the polarization of the radiation is determined. 7, consisting of a box with a hole in its side, which could be opened or closed by a shutter moved by means of a clock-work within the box.
700 NILS BOHR instrument rigidly fixed to the support which ceding discussion, may be characterized as a defines the space frame of reference. 8 in the same pseudo-realistic style as some of the preceding figures. 8, which gives a diagrammatic representation of the orbital motion in the stationary states corresponding to the emission of the arc-spectrum of potassium. 8-0078 or 0-0185 units which was found to equate fairly accurately to the kinetic energy of the ac-particles produced as deduced from their speed. 9 and from this I2 = ~ - t 8 . 9 n2 In 1909 Paschen succeeded in observing the first two lines of this series corresponding to n = 4 and n = 5.
9 the absciss are the atomic numbers and the ordinates are proportional to the square roots of the spectral terms, while the symbols K, L, M, N, O, for the individual S T R U C T U R E O F T H E A T O M 41 terms refer to the characteristic discontinuities in the selective absorption of the elements for X-rays; these were originally found by Barkla before the discovery of the interference of X-rays in crystals had provided a means for the closer investigation of X-ray spectra. 9) by the fact that the electron configurations for titanium and zirconium show the same sort of resemblances and differences as the electron configurations for zirconium and the element with atomic number 72 .
9) is given a summary of the results concerning the structure of the atoms of the elements to which the author has been led by a consideration of successive capture and binding of electrons to the atomic nucleus. 96 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE As is "well known, Cockcroft and Walton's initial experiments on the production of high-speed oc-particles by the impact of protons on lithium nuclei gave the first direct verification of Einstein's formula for the general relation between energy and mass which in the follow- ing years afforded constant guidance in nuclear research. : two single series I. and II., and a double series III.
:Now in Wood's experiments the pressure was not very low, and the states corre~pondin_~r to high values for ~"could therefore not appear ; yet in the absorption spectrum about 50 lines were detected. :Now the essential point in Planck's theory of radiation is that the energy radiation from an atomic system does not take place in the continuous way assumed in the ordinary electrodynamies, but that it, on the contrary, takes place in distinctly separated emissions, the amount of energy radiated out from an atomic vibrator of frequency 1, in a single emission being equal to Thv, where ~" is an entire number, and h is a universal constant*.
= 2 N 2 e4 M m From this formula we find in a manner quite similar to that previously employed that the system will emit a line spectrum, the wave lengths of which are given by the formula 1 2 2 N 2 e4 mM 1 1 = 3 . =R 4 (n + 21 )2 Rydberg considered these lines to represent a new series of lines in the spectrum of hydrogen, and predicted according on the spectrum of hydrogen to his theory the existence of still another series of hydrogen lines the wave lengths of which would be given by 1 1 1 =R 3 2 2 . A careful investigation of the spatial atomic configuration requires elaborate calculation, and Kramers has not yet obtained final results. A characteristic example of such a case is afforded by the spatial extension of the atoms of the elements.
A characteristic feature of the quantum-mechanical description is that the representation of a state of a system can never imply the accurate determination of both members of a pair of conjugate variables q and p. In fact, due to the noncommutability of such variables, as expressed by (1) and (2), there will always be a reciprocal relation (3) between the latitudes t:.q and t: .p with which these vari ables can be fixed. A choice of orbital constants which is suitable for the discussion of this problem, and which is well known from the astronomical theory of planetary perturbations, is obtained by choosing for 2 the total angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus and for 3 the component of this angular momentum round the axis of the field.
A clear example of such an ambiguity is offered by the dilemma mentioned, as to the properties of electrons or photons, where we are faced with the contrast revealed by the comparison between observations regarding an atomic object, ob tained by means of different experimental arrangements. A closer an instantaneous effect taking place at a definite investigation of the possibilities of definition would 1928 Nature Publishing Group Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 583 still seem necessary in order to bring out the general plicity, we here have regarded the velocity of light complementary character of the description.
A closer consideration, however, in which regard is taken to the influence of the relativity modifications, learns that the degree of stability of the motion in the stationary states, as determined by (22), actually is often much higher, the order of magnitude of the external force, necessary to cause finite deviations from this motion, being of the same order as the product of the attraction from the nucleus with the square of the ratio of the velocity of the electron and the velocity of light. A closer examination showed, however, that the suggested control of the momentum transfer would involve a latitude in the knowledge of the position of the diaphragm which would exclude the appearance of the interference phenomena in question.
A closer investigation ()Tthe cedure which allows us to takeInto account the coupling possibilities of definition would still seem necessagy in of the individuals, characterizing the interaction in ques- Mng out the general complementary character tion, where just the impqrtance of the electric charge of the description. A closer investigation of the fission process in collaboration with 7 w ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE Wheeler showed that many of its characteristic features could be accounted for in terms of the mechanism of nuclear reactions involving as a first step the formation of a compound nucleus.
A closer investigation of the perturbations, however, shows them to be of such a character that the motion of the electrons may be decomposed into a number of separate harmonic components. A closer investigation, however, should make it clear that a definite relation may be obtained between the spectra of the elements and the structure of their atoms on the basis of the postulates. A closer investigavion shows, experience. A closer mvest1gat1on of the" "The Rutherford Memori"al Lecture 1958 1113" fisswn process m collaboration with Wheeler showed that many ?f its character istic features could be accounted for m terms of the mechamsm of nuclear reactions mvolving as a first step the format10n of a compound nucleus.
A clue to the solution of this dilemma was, however, already provided by Planck's discovery of the elementary quantum of action which was the out come of a very different line of physical research. A comparison with the second relation is not possible at present, and we meet also here with a difficulty arising from the fact that Moseley observed a greater number of lines in the radiation than should be expected on Kossels simple scheme There is another point in connexion with the above considerations which appears to be of interest. A considerable number of physicists have taken part in this development of the quantum theory, including Planck himself.
A continuation of my paper in the Transactions of the Copenhagen Academy will soon appear in which I shall show how this method enables us to understand the interesting observations Stark and others have made in this field. A contribution of fundamental importance to the foundation of quantum theory was already during the war given by Einstein, who showed how the Planck formula of radiation could be simply derived by the same assumptions that had proved fruitful for the explanation of spectral regularities, and had found such striking support in the famous investigations by Franck and Hertz on the excitation of atoms by electron bombardment.
A corresponding intimate change in the interaction between the electron last captured and the one previously bound is not required here for the two electrons in the atom to become equivalent. A corresponding view was proposed by Bury on the basis of his above-mentioned systematic considerations of the connexion between the grouping of the electrons in the atom and the properties of the elements. A de- oil('-he matrix theory, to which we shall return scription of the * orbit * of the electron in the atom below. A decided advance in this direction was marked by the well-known investigations of Franck and Hertz (1914).
A description of the orbit of the electron in the simple consequence of the assumption that the proba- atom with the aid of subsequent observations is, hence, bility of the presence of a free electron is expressed by impossible in such a case. A description of this kind, which evidently represents an ideal form of causal relationships, expressed by the notion of determinism, was found to have still wider scope.
A detailed discussion of these problems will be given in a later paper by Mr. H. A. Kramers, who on my proposal has kindly undertaken to examine the resolution of the motion of the electron in its constituent harmonic vibrations more closely, and who has deduced explicit expressions for the amplitudes of these vibrations, not only for the motion of the electron in the undisturbed atom, but also for the perturbed motion in the presence of a small external homogeneous electric field. A detailed investigation of the motion of the electron may be very complicated; but it can be simply shown that the problem only allows of two stationary orbits of the electron.
A detailed investigation of the very complicated motion of the electron was not attempted, but it was simply pointed out that the problem allows of two stationary orbits of the electron, and that these may be taken as representing two possible stationary states. A diagrammatic representation of this so-called Periodic Table is given in Fig. A discussion of the helium spectrum from this point of view has recently been given by Lande. A faithful account of Rutherford's eventful life from childhood till his last days has been written by his old friend from the Montreal period, A. S. Eve. A few days later Rutherford suggested that Geiger and I should round off the experiments in a form suitable for publication.
A few days later, I got a letter from Rutherford touch- ing incidentally on this point, and which I cannot resist quoting in full: April 21, 1932. A few months earlier, on a visit to Princeton where Einstein was then guest of the newly founded Institute for Advanced Study to which he soon after became permanently attached, I had, however, opportunity to talk with him again about the epistemological aspects of atomic physics, but the difference between our ways of approach and expression still presented obstacles to mutual understanding. A few weeks after the Cavendish Dinner I went up to Manchester to visitone of recently deceased father's colleagues who was also a my close friend of Rutherford.
A few weeks later, at the Centenary Celebrations for Galvani in Bologna, we learned with sorrow and consternation of Rutherford's death, and I went at once to England to attend his funeral. A first step towards this goal was the recognition by de Broglie in 1925 that the wave-corpuscle duality was not confined to the properties of radiation, but was equally unavoidable in accounting for the behaviour of material particles. A foundation for further advances in this field has been made in recent years through a development of the quantum theory, which allows a fixation of the stationary states not only in the case of simple periodic systems, but also for certain classes of nonperiodic systems.
A full mutual appreciation of the cultural achievements of humanity is indeed irreconcilable with the complacency inherent in any national culture. A fuller account of the historical development, illustrated by typical examples which have served to clarify the general principles, is included in n chapter of Albert Einstein. A fundamental contribution to the clarification of the principles of quantum statistics was afforded by Heisenberg's ingenious explanation in 1926 of the duplicity of the helium spectrum. A further asset to the group at the Cavendish was the arrival, a few years later, of Kapitza, who brought with him ingenious projects, in particular for the pro- duction of magnetic fields of hitherto unheard-of intensities.
A further great advance was the discovery of natural radio-active substances and, in particular, should Madame CURIE's isolation of radium so largely improve the means for the radiative treatment of malignant tumours. A general discussion of these problems will be given by Kramers in the paper, mentioned on page 136 in the last section, in which also the problem of the intensity of the fine structure components is treated in detail. A glance at the figure for the sodium spectrum shows that this agrees exactly with the experimental results. A greater difference between this and the previous figure could scarcely be imagined.
A helium atom from which one electron is removed will thus form a dynamical system perfectly similar to a neutral hydrogen atom, and may therefore be expected to emit a spectrum represented by (35) if in (40) we put N = 2. A hint in this direction least of the order of magnitude of the periods associated was already given by the well-known difficulties met with transitions between stationary states. A hint in this direction was harmonic nature of the corresponding classical already given by the well-known difficulties met motion.
A limiting case of this problem is afforded by an electron rotating round a positive nucleus and subject to the effect of an additional homogeneous electric field, because this field may be considered as arising from a second nucleus at infinite distance apart from the first. A main theme for the discussion was the renunciation of pictorial deterministic description implied in the new methods. A measure of this effect of the inner electrons on the motion of the outer may be obtained by considering the function . A method of escaping from these difficulties has now been found in the application of ideas belonging to the quantum theory, the basis of which was laid by Planck in his celebrated work on the law of temperature radiation.
A milestone on this climb was reached in ancient Greece, where, at the same time when art flourished in unsurpassed measure, the endeavors infinite sequences such as that in the humorous tale about the race between Achilles and the tortoise sharply exposed the demands that were made on mathematical proofs. A more accurate check of formulae (3) and (4) can however not be obtained from such a comparison, because in such experiments hydrogen is not present in the form of simple atoms but as molecules. A more complicated case arises when the atom is exposed to a homogeneous electric field which is not so strong that the effect due to the change in the mass may be neglected.
A more general class of systems for which a similar analogy with systems of a single degree of freedom exists and where conditions of the same type as (15) present themselves is obtained in the case where, although the motions corresponding to the different degrees of freedom are not independent of each other, it is possible nevertheless by a suitable choice of coordinates to express each of the momenta pk as a function of qk only. A more intimate connexion between the spectra and the atomic model has been revealed, however, by an investigation of the motion in those stationary states where the term number is large, and where the dimensions of the electron orbit and the frequency of revolution in it vary relatively little when we go from one stationary state to the next following.
A most direct confirmation for the general interpretation of spectra on the basis of the postulates has also been obtained by investigations on the excitation of spectral lines and ionization of atoms by means of impact of free electrons with given velocities. A most interesting historical account of this develop- ment, to which important contributions were given from various sides, can be found in the well-known volume recently published in memory of Pauli. A most notable figure was Aston, who through many years had worked with J. J. Thomson and already during the wartime had started the development of mass spectroscopic methods which was to lead to the demonstration of the existence of isotopes of almost every element. A motion of this kind is called conditionally periodic.
A neutral atom of the latter element consists, according to Rutherford's theory, of a positive nucleus of charge 2e and two electrons. A new background for the attitude towards such problems was, however, created by the discovery of the quantum of action in the first year of our century, which revealed a feature of individuality in atomic processes going far beyond the ancient doctrine of the limited divisibility of matter. A new feature, commented upon from various sides, was Nernst's- idea of quantized rotations of gas molecules, which was eventually to receive such beautiful confirmation in the measurements of the fine structure of infra-red absorption lines.
A number of electrons are supposed to revolve in closed orbits around the nucleus, the number of these electrons being sufficient to neutralize the positive charge of the nucleus. A number of interesting results can be obtained from this correspondence by considering the motion in more detail. A paragraph is here omitted, commenting on the isotopic tracer investi- gations by Hevesy, which showed that a major part of the calcium atoms incorporated in the skeleton of a mouse at the foetal stage remains there for the whole life of the animal.
A part of these additional vibrations will again possess frequencies of the types | P + t1 v1 | and | P + t1 v1 + v2 |, and will cause that the motion, instead of consisting of vibrations which are exactly linear and exactly circular as in the case where the external fields are parallel to each other, will be composed of elliptical harmonic vibrations which partly are nearly linear and parallel to the direction of the stronger field and partly nearly circular and perpendicular to this direction. A particular spectral line will, according to this principle, correspond to each combination of n1 and n2 , as well as to the functions F1 , F2 , .
A passage from a Danish novel, which my father had been very fond of from his youth, is used to illustrate a psychological situation in which complementary relationships are conspicuous. A possible explanation on this basis of the complex Zeeman effect of double lines will be indicated in the next section. A possible origin of the feeble components polarized perpendicular to the field, which were observed by Stark, may be found when a closer examination is made of the effect of the electric field on the motion of the electron. A possible radiation is ascribed to ring 3, and so on.
A precise formulation of such analogies involves, of course, intricacies of terminology, and the writer's position is perhaps best indicated in a passage in the article, hinting at the mutually exclusive relationship which will always exist between the practical use of any word and attempts at its strict definition. A principal purpose of such parallels was to call attention to the necessity in many domains of general human interest to face problems of a similar kind as those which had arisen in quantum theory and thereby to give a more familiar background for the apparently extravagant way of expression which physicists have developed to cope with their acute difficulties.
A procedure quite analogous to that applied above may be used to treat the problem of the effect of a homogeneous magnetic field on the hydrogen spectrum, also when the relativity modifications are taken into account, and when the atoms at the same time are exposed to a small external field of force of constant potential, which possesses axial symmetry round an axis through the nucleus parallel to the magnetic force; because also in this case we can obviously make direct use of Larmors theorem. A report was also given by Fermi on the magnetic moments of atomic nuclei, in which, as first pointed out by Pauli, the origin of the so-called hyperfine structure of spectral lines was to be found. A rise of temperature in the able food in the fresh condition.
A satisfa lution of the roblems by Heisenberg and Jordan. A satisfactory basis for the further development of this picture of atomic structure has, however, only recently been created by the study of the binding processes of the electrons in the atom, of which we have experimental evidence in optical spectra, and the characteristic features of which have been elucidated principally by the correspondence principle. A satisfactory solution of the problems of the order of magnitude of the quantum numbers touched upon would seem to be possible only by associated with the proper vibrations. A scintillation screen set up near the target showed a stream of artificially produced oa-particles resulting from the break-up of the lithium nuclei: 7Li + 111_> 42He + 4He + energy.
A second preliminary completion must be regarded as having been reached with the appearance of a symmetrical configuration of 18 electrons in the case of silver, consisting of three subgroups with six electrons each in orbits of the types 41 , 42 and 43 . A section is here omitted, commenting on the problem of the rhythm in the process of growth of a cell. A series of lines, first observed by Pickering in stellar spectra and recently by Fowler in vacuum-tubes containing a mixture of hydrogen and helium, is generally also ascribed to hydrogen. A serious anomaly showed itself however when the experiments were made in air using as source of hydrogen a thin film of wax of approximate composition C27H56.
A short time after the elucidation of this question, new evidence of extraordinary interest was obtained of such a similarity between the properties of the elements. A short time ago these experiments showed that the impact of electrons could bring helium into a metastable state from which the atom cannot return to its normal state by means of a simple transition accompanied by the emission of radiation, but only by means of a process analogous to a chemical reaction involving interaction with atoms of other elements. A simple application of the last result is afforded by the problem of the simultaneous effect on the hydrogen lines of a homogeneous electric and a homogeneous magnetic field which have the same direction.
A simple assumption is therefore that in one of the two systems the orbit of the electron is circular and in the other very flat. A simple calculation shows that the energy radiated out during the process considered will be enormously great D compared with that radiated out by ordinary molecular processes. A simple example of this is afforded by a system consisting of a particle moving in a plane and executing harmonic vibrations in two perpendicular directions with frequencies 1 and 2 .
A simple explanation of this fact is however afforded by realizing that the orbit of the electron will run partly inside the region of the inner orbit and that therefore the effective quantum number which corresponds to the outer almost elliptical loop will be much smaller than the principal quantum number, by which the whole central orbit is described. A simple illustration of the last considerations is afforded by the system mentioned in the beginning of this section, and which consists of a particle executing motions in three perpendicular directions which are independent of each other. A simple illustration of these considerations is offered by the linear harmonic vibrator mentioned above in connection with Plancks theory.
A simple investigation of the kinematic properties of the orbits of the electrons shows in fact that an electron in an eccentric 43 orbit of an element in the fifth period will be considerably more loosely bound than an electron in a circular 33 orbit of the corresponding element in the fourth period, while electrons which are bound in eccentric orbits of the types 51 and 41 respectively will correspond to a binding of about the same firmness. A simple survey of this system is given in fig. A simple system of this kind consists of a particle moving in a plane orbit in a central field of force.
A simpleestimate of this contribution gives, in first approximation, an expression of the type ...... (3) where 2nr denotes a lower limit for the wave-lengths of the field components taken into account. A so-called 'slowly controlled' reaction is not yet considered probable. A special adventure at an earlier stage was the discovery of the capture of electrons by IX-rays which, after the first observation of the phenomenon in 1922 by Henderson, was explored by Rutherford m one of his most masterly researches. A special adventure at an earlier stage was the discovery of the capture of electrons by oc-rays which, after the first observation of the pheno- menon in 1922by Henderson, was explored by Rutherford in one of his most masterly researches.
A special case of an external field possessing axial symmetry, in which the secular perturbations are very simple, presents itself if the external forces form a central field with the nucleus at the centre. A special difficulty of thiskind,which has been much discussed,is encountered in the problem of the so-called self-energy of a point charge. A special event, in which Rutherford took great interest, was the application of Moseley's method by Coster and Hevesy in 1922 to the successful search for the missing element now called hafnium, the properties of which gave strong additional support to the interpreta- tion of the periodic system of the elements.
A special illustration of the power and scope of the mathematical methods of quantum physics presented by the peculiar quantum is statistics pertaining to systems of identical particles where we have to do with a feature as foreign to classical physics as the quantum of action itself. A special opportunity to see Rutherford again soon arose in connec- tion with the meeting of the British Association for the Advancement of Science in Birmingham in September, 1913. A special point discussed in this con- nection was the question of how far one can regard such quantities as measurable in the same sense as the electron mass and charge whose definition rests on the analysis of phenomena which can be entirely accounted for in classical terms.
A special point discussed was how to overcome the difficulties connected with the appearance of divergencies in quantum electro- dynamics, not least conspicuous in the question of the self-energy of charged particles. A special reminiscence, however, from the meeting in 1930 is con- nected with the opportunity it gave to resume the discussion of the epistemological problems debated at the conference in 1927. A spectrum must be assumed to correspond to each of these binding processes; but only for the first two elements, hydrogen and helium, do we possess a detailed knowledge of these spectra.
A spectrum with a structure of this kind is, like the hydrogen spectrum, called a series spectrum, since the lines can be arranged into series in which the frequencies converge to definite limiting values. A starting point for the investigation of this question has been obtained from considerations of an entirely different kind from those previously mentioned, which have made it possible to establish a close connection between the motion in the atom and the appearance of spectral lines.
A starting point was offered by the empirical regularities exhibited by the optical spectra of the elements, which, as first recognized by Rydberg, could be expressed by the combination principle, according to which the frequency of any spectral line was represented with extreme accuracy as the difference between two members of a set of terms characteristic of the element. A structure of this kind may be described as one where the motions of the electrons within the groups are coupled together in a manner which is largely independent of the interaction between the various groups.
A support for this view was found not only in the fact that Planck's relation appeared approximately applicable to the more loosely bound electrons involved in the chemical and optical properties of the elements, but especially in the tracing of similar relationships as regards the most firmly bound electrons in the atom revealed by the charactenstic penetrating radiat10n dis covered by Barkla. A support for this view was found not only in the fact that Planck's relation appeared approximately applicable to the more loosely bound electrons involved in the chemical and optical properties of the elements, but especially in the tracing of similar relationships as regards the most firmly bound electrons in the atom revealed by the characteristic penetrating radia- tion discovered by Barkla.
A survey of the motion in the stationary states thus fixed is given in the diagram (Fig. A survey of the procedures by which this problem could be treated on the principles of classical physics was given by Lorentz, who in a series of famous papers had traced the consequences of the assumption that the electrons in metals behaved like a gas obeying the Maxwell velocity distribution law. A survey of these results is given in the following table, which gives a symbolical representation of the atomic structure of the inactive gases which complete the first six periods in the periodic system.
A testimony to the acuteness with which the difficulties in radiation theory were felt was a letter from Lord Rayleigh, read at the conference, in which he admonishes to take Jeans' suggestion into careful consideration. A theoretical explanation of the main features of the helium spectrum has recently been attempted in an interesting paper by Lande. A theory of the Zeeman effect of the hydrogen fines based on the quantum theory of line spectra has, as mentioned in the introduction, been given independently by Sommerfeld and by Debye. A turning-point in this whole field came, however, about ten years ago with Crick and Watson's ingenious pro- posal for an interpretation of the structure of the DNA molecules.
A typical case of a degenerate system, which may serve as an illustration of this point, is formed by a system of several degrees of freedom for which every motion is simply periodic, independent of the initial conditions. A vivid account of the discussions at the first Solvay meeting I got from Rutherford, when I met him in Manchester in 1911, shortly after his return from Brussels. A well known characteristic example of a conditionally periodic system is afforded by a particle moving under the influence of the attractions from two fixed centres varying as the inverse squares of the distances apart, if the relativity modifications are neglected.
A year later came an even clearer statement; writing of a single radioactive substance the principle is laid down 'The rate of change of the system at any time is always proportional to the amount remaining unchanged' 'the proportional amount of radioactive matter that changes in unit time is a constant' called the radioactive constant. A year later, November iyth, 1918, Rutherford in his characteristic manner announced further progress : I wish I had you here to discuss the meaning of some of my results in collision of nuclei.I have got some rather startling results, I think, but it is a heavy and long business getting certain proofs of my deductions.
AAGE BOHR Copenhagen May 1963 Quantum Physics and Philosophy Causality and Complementarity significance of physical science for philosophy does not merely The in the steady increase of our experience of inanimate matter, lie but above all in the opportunity of testing the foundation and scope of some of our most elementary concepts. ADDRESS AT THE OPENING CEREMONY It is an honour and pleasure to me to follow the invitation of the Organization Committee to say some words at this opening meeting of The Seventh International Congress of Radiology. ATOMIC PHYSICS AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION.
About the same time, the idea of the atomi" "number was independently introduced by van den Broek m Amsterdam, bu in his classification of the elements a different nuclear charge was still ascribed to every stable or radioactive substance." About the same time, the idea of the atomicnumber was independently introduced by van den Broek in Amsterdam, but in his classification of the elements a different nuclear charge was still ascribed to every stable or radioactive sub- stance. Above all I shall not consider the problem of the nature of radiation, I shall only attempt to show how it has been possible in a purely formal manner to develop a spectral theory, the essential elements of which may be considered as a simultaneous rational development of the two ways of interpreting Plancks result.
Above all such hopes would seem to rest upon an underestimate of the fundamental differences between the laws with which we are concerned in atomic physics and the every day experiences which are comprehended so completely by the ideas of classical physics. Above all, Rutherford's discovery of the atomic nucleus (1911) revealed at once the inadequacy of classical mechanical and electromagnetic concepts to explain the inherent stability of the atom. Above all, early consultations between the nations allied in the war about the best ways jointly to obtain future security might contribute decisively to that atmosphere of mutual confidence which would be essential for cooperation on the many other matters of common concern.
Above all, he noted that his accurate measurements of the wavelengths of the Pickering lines did not exactly coincide with those calculated from my formula with = Z 2. Above all, however, Ruitherford was fortunate in that his exuberant friendly nature found such a ready response, fortunate that his senior colleague Cox gave him such loyal support and relieved him of much of the routine work of organization and teaching and fortunate again that Macdonald later provided finance to purchase first a quantity of radium with which to work and secondly a liquid-air machine without which some of his best experiments could not have been performed.
Above all, however, in connection with the discovery of the positron by Anderson and Blackett, Dirac's theory prepared the recognition of the existence of antiparticles of equal mass by opposite electric charges and opposite orientations of the magnetic moment relative to the spin axis. Above all, however, it deserves mention that, following early ideas of Nernst about quantized rotations of molecules, N. Bjerrum already in 1912 predicted the band structure of infra-red absorption lines in diatomic gases, and thereby made a first step towards the detailed analysis of molecular spectra eventually achieved on the basis of the subsequent interpretation, by quantum theory, of the general spectral combination law.
Above all, however, it deserves mention that, followmg early ideas of Nernst about quantized rotations of molecules, N. Bjer rum already tn 1912 predicted the band structure of infra-red absorption lines in diatomic gases, and thereby made a first step towards the detailed analysis of molecular spectra eventually achieved on the basis of the subsequent interpretation, by quantum theory, of the general spectral combination law." Above all, however, it was the discovery by RONTGEN of the penetrating radiation accompanying electric discharges in evacuated containers, which gave us the means of so-to-say looking through our bodies and of combating diseases of the internal organs.
Above all, however, the rehef of Rutherford, m Eric Gill's artistic intoerpretation, placed in the entrance hall, deeply shocked many of Rutherford's friends. Above all, however, the relief of Rutherford, in Eric Gill's artistic interpretation, placed in the entrance hall, deeply 72 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE shocked many of Rutherford's friends. Above all, just the impossibility in introspection of sharply distinguishing between subject and object as is essential to the ideal of causality would seem to provide the natural play for the feeling of free will.
Above all, the ex- planation of the orbital motion of the planets in our solar system, based on simple mechanical principles and the law of universal gravitation, deeply influenced the general philosophical attitude in the following centuries and strengthened the view that space and time as well as cause and effect had to be taken as a priori categories for the compre- hension of all knowledge. Above all, the recognition that electron pairs can be produced by the inter- action of photons of sufficiently large energy requires a more deep-going analysis of the consequences of thequantum theory of fields in the high-frequency limit.
Above all, this stability is strikingly illustrated by spectral analysis which, as is well known, has revealed that any element possesses a characteristic spectrum of sharp lines, independent of the external conditions to such an extent that it offers a means of identifying the material composition of even the most remote stars by spectroscopic observations. Absorption and emission of Xrays and correspondence principle. Absorption and excitation of radiation. Absorption and excitation of spectral lines The interpretation of the origin of the spectra was also able to explain the characteristic laws that govern absorption spectra. Accord- light, its propagation in space and time is ade- ingly, an independent reality in the ordinary quately expressed by the electromagnetic theory.
According concepts and in harmony with the quantum postulate, fo the quantum theory, just the impossibility of neg- to throw light on essential aspects of experience. According to (1), (2), and (3) the energy of the state in the series is omitting the arbitrary constant, given by The present theory is not sufficiently developed to account in detail for the expression (13). According to Fouriers theorem any of the qs may therefore be represented by an s-double trigonometric series of the form X q= A1 ,..., s cos 2(1 w1 + . According to Rutherfords calculation the positive charge of the nucleus corresponds to a number of electrons equal to about half the atomic weight.
According to Rydberg and Ritz, the frequency of the lines in the ordinary spectrum of an element is given by where and are whole numbers and, are a series of functions of which can be expressed by where is a universal constant and a function which for large values of approaches unity. According to Starks experiments on this corresponds to a resolution produced by an electric force of about 900 volt per cm. According to but then the determination of the space co-ordinates the classical concepts, the description of the of the particle becomes correspondingly less scattering requires a finite extent of the radia- accurate.
According to his calculation, which was found to agree with Zeemans observation within the limit of experimental error, the difference in frequency between the outer and the inner components is the same for every spectral line, and equal to where is the magnetic force and the velocity of light. According to its tendency to make room for the phenomena of life within the conceptions suited to the description of material systems, the viewpoint discussed stands far removed from every attempt to exploit in a spiritual sense the failure of causal description in atomic physics.
According to ordinary electrodynamics the radiation emitted by the rotating system will correspond to a Zeeman triplet, the central component of which has the same frequency as the frequency of revolution in the elliptical orbit. According to ordinary electrodynamics the radiation from the system would therefore consist of a number of components of frequency 1 1 + 2 2 polarised parallel to the axis of symmetry, and a number of components of frequencies 1 1 + 2 2 + 3 and of circular polarisation round this axis (when viewed in the direction of the axis). According to our considerations, the major-axis of the orbit of the outer electron is approximately equal to that in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom.
According to our picture of the origin of the sodium spectrum this means that the P states in the second row in the figureas opposed to the S states in the first roware not simple, but that for each place in this row there are two stationary states. According to our postulates, this law finds an immediate interpretation in the assumption that the spectrum is emitted by transitions between a number of stationary states in which the numerical value of the energy of the atom is equal to the value of the spectral term multiplied by Planck's constant.
According to our present conceptions, an atom of an element is built up of a nucleus that has a positive electrical charge and is the seat of by far the greatest part of the atomic mass, together with a number of electrons, all having the same negative charge and mass, which move at distances from the nucleus that are very great compared to the dimensions of the nucleus or of the electrons themselves. According to our view, however, this was exactly what might have been expected, for we must assume that the essential difference between the oscillator and the hydrogen atom is that the motion of the oscillator is simple harmonic.
According to our views on the stability of the electronic configuration such a disturbance must consist in the removal of electrons from the atom, or at any rate in their transference from normal orbits to orbits of higher quantum numbers than those belonging to completed groups; a circumstance which is clearly illustrated in the characteristic difference between selective absorption in the X-ray region, and that exhibited in the optical region. According to section 3 , the effect of a magnetic field is to superpose a rotation of uniform frequency on the orbit of the electron.
According to such a formulation it would appear as though we had to do with some arbitrary renunciation of the measurement of either the one or the other of the two well-defined attributes of the object, which would not preclude the possibility of a future theory taking both attributes into account on the lines of the classical physics. According to the Ritz combination principle the entire spectrum may then be obtained by forming every possible combination of two values among all the quantities fk (n). According to the above considerations, we are led to assume that these configurations will correspond to states of the system in which there is no radiation of energy; states which consequently will be stationary as long as the system is not disturbed from out side.
According to the above we shall therefore assume that the a-priori probability is the same for all states, given by (22), of any system which can be formed in a continuous way from a system of this kind without passing through systems of degeneration.
According to the considerations in Part I, we shall consequently assume that for a given hydrogen line the relative intensities of the different Stark effect components, corresponding to transitions between different pairs of stationary states characterised by n1 = n01 , n2 = n02 , n3 = n03 and n1 = n001 , n2 = n002 , n3 = n003 respectively, will be intimately connected with the intensities of the radiations of frequency (n01 n001 )1 + (n02 n002 )2 + (n03 n003 )3 , which on ordinary electrodynamics would be emitted by the atom in the two states involved in the transition in question; 1 , 2 , and 3 being the fundamental frequencies entering in the expression (31) for the displacement of the electron.
According to the considerations used in sections 1 and 2, each series of lines in the spectrum of an element corresponds to a series of stationary states of the atom, in which one of the electrons moves outside the others. According to the correspondence principle an intimate connection is to be expected between the frequency of revolution of the major axis of the orbit and the difference of the frequencies of the fine structure components, and the stationary states will be those orbits whose parameters are given by expression (25).
According to the correspondence principle we must therefore expect that the electric field will not only influence the lines appearing under ordinary circumstances, but that it will also render possible new types of transitions which give rise to the new combination lines observed. According to the correspondence principle, it is assumed that every transition process between two stationary states can be co-ordinated with a corresponding harmonic vibration component in such a way that the probability of the occurrence of the transition is dependent on the amplitude of the vibration. According to the definition of angle variables, mentioned in the Note on page 53 in Part I, this means that it is possible, in stead of the positional coordinates q1 , .
According to the electron theory of matter a body consists of a system of electrons. According to the equation (3) on p. 5, this state is the one which corresponds to T=I. According to the first postulate there are certain states in which the atom can exist without emitting radiation, although the particles are supposed to have an accelerated motion relative to one another. According to the fundamental postulates of the theory this binding takes place in stages by transitions between stationary states accompanied by emission of radiation.
According to the general principles of the quantum theory of line spectra discussed in the first section of Part I, we shall therefore expect that this spectrum is emitted by a system which possesses a series of stationary states in which the numerical value of the energy in the nth state, omitting an arbitrary constant, with a high degree of approximation is given by Kh En = 2 , (36) n where h is Plancks constant which enters in the fundamental relation (1). According to the last section, the different series of lines in the spectrum of an element correspond to different series of stationary states of the atom in which one of the electrons moves in an orbit outside the others.
According to the laws discovered by Balmer, Rydberg and Ritz, the frequencies of the lines of the series spectrum of an element can be expressed by a formula of the type: = f 00 (n00 ) f 0 (n0 ), (2) where n0 and n00 are whole numbers and f (n) is one among a set of functions of n, characteristic for the element under consideration. According to the means a complete renunciation as regards a time de- ordinary kinematics, the eflective duration of such a pas- scription. According to the postulates of the quantum theory absorption as well as emission of radiation is regarded as taking place during transitions between stationary states.
According to the present theory we must assume that this absorption is followed by an emission of energy during which the systems pa~s back to the original stationary state. According to the principle of correspondence the frequency of rotation of the major axis of the orbit of the outer electron is to be regarded as a measure of the deviation of the spectral terms from the corresponding hydrogen terms.
According to the principle of correspondence we are therefore immediately led to the conclusion, that to each stationary state in the unperturbed system there corresponds a number of stationary states in the perturbed system in such a manner, that for a transition between two of these states a radiation is emitted, whose frequency stands in the same relationship to the periodic course of the variations in the orbit, as the spectrum of a simple periodic system does to its motion in the stationary states. According to the principle of correspondence, therefore, we must expect that also in this case in the presence of the field each hydrogen line will consist of a number of sharp, polarized components.
According to the quantum and by e the so-called numerical aperture, that is, the theory, however, the scattering of radiation from the ob- sine of half the angle of convergence, the resolving power ject is always connected with a finite change in mo- of a microscope is given by the well-known expression mentum, which is the larger the smaller the wave-length 21/2: .
According to the quantum theory we shall now assume that the atom possesses a series of stationary states characterized by a series of integers, and it can be seen how the frequencies given by formula (2) may be derived from the frequency relation if it is assumed that a hydrogen line is connected with a radiation emitted during a transition between two of these states corresponding to the numbers n0 and n00 , and if the energy in the nth state apart from an arbitrary additive constant is supposed to be given by the formula Kh (3) En = 2 .
According to the quantum theory, however, the congervation laws with the space-time co- the scattering of radiation from the object is always ordination of observations, the idea of a coincidence connected with a finite change in momentum, of well-defined events in a space-time point being which is the larger the smaller the wave-length of replaced by that of unsharply defined individuals the radiation used. According to the second postulate each emission of radiation from the atom resulting from such a transition always consists of a train of purely harmonic waves.
According to the theory of conditionally periodic systems the stationary states for a system of three degrees of freedom will in general be determined by three conditions, and therefore in these theories each state is characterized by three whole numbers. According to the theory of the latter the atom consists of a sphere of uniform positive electrification, inside which the electrons move in circular orbits. According to the theory proposed by Sir Ernest Rutherford, in order to account for the phenomena of scattering of -rays, the atom consists of a central positively charged nucleus surrounded by a cluster of electrons.
According to the theory the necessary condition for the appearance of a great number of lines is therefore a very small density of tile gas; fbr simultaneously to obtain an 17. raschen, Ann. According to the theory we may, however, expect that the emission of the spectrum given by (7) corresponds to the first stage of the formation of the helium atom, i.e. According to the two alternative procedures, quantum-mechanical calculations may be performed either by representing the variables by matrices with elements referring to the individual transitions between two states of the system or by making use of the so-called wave equation, the solutions of which refer to these states and allow us to derive probabilities for the transitions between them. According to the view underlying fig.
According to the wellknown law discovered by Rydberg for the spectra of elements emitted under the usual conditions of excitation the functions fk (n) appearing in formula (14) can be written in the form fk (n) = K k (n), n2 (16) where k (n) represents a function which converges to unity for large values of n. K is the same constant which appears in formula (5) for the spectrum of hydrogen. According to their criterion, the authors therefore conclude that quantum mechanics does not "provide a complete description of the physical reality," and they express their belief that it should be possible to develop a more adequate account of the phenomena.
According to these rules the possibility of combination is limited (1) by the exclusion of combinations, for which k changes by more than one unit, (2) by the condition that only combinations between an aand a blevel can take place. According to this principle, the wave lengths of the various lines in the spectrum of an element may be expressed by the formula 1 = Fr (n1 ) Fs (n2 ).
According to this relation, we shall assume that the probability, for a transition between two given stationary states to take place, will depend not only on the a-priori probability of these states, which is determining for their occurrence in a distribution of statistical equilibrium, but will also depend essentially on the motion of the particles in these states, characterised by the harmonic vibrations in which this motion can be resolved.
According to this theory the stationary states of a system, consisting of a particle executDownloaded from https://www.holybooks.com 20 ing linear harmonic vibrations with a constant frequency 0 independent of the energy, are given by the well known relation E = nh0 , (9) where n is a positive entire number, h Plancks constant, and E the total energy which is supposed to be zero if the particle is at rest. According to this theory, the atoms consist of a positively charged nucleus surrounded by a system of electrons kept together by attractive forces from tile nucleus; the total : negative charge of the electrons is equal to the positive charge of the nucleus. According ~o the equation (3) the diameter of the orbit of the electron in the different stationary states is proportional t o 7~.
According, however, to the point of view taken in this paper, the question oE stability tbr displacements of the electrons in the plane of the ring is most intimately connected with the question of the mechanism of the binding of the electrons, and like the latter cannot be treated on the basis of the ordinary dynamics. Accordingly the quantity corresponding to in the equation (19) and due to the second term in (25) will vary approximately as. Accordingly, the unambiguous account of proper quantum phenomena must, in principle, include a description of all relevant features of the experimental arrangement. Actually they ought to have observed the effect a year or so ago but did not try it in the right way.
Actually, words like "thoughts" and "sentiments," equally indispensable to illustrate the variety and scope of conscious life, are used in a similar complementary way as are space-time co-ordination and dynamical conservation laws in atomic physics. Additional evidence of the essential validity of the interpretation of formula (13) seems also to be derived from the result of Starks experiments on the effect of electric fields on spectral lines. Additional support, however, was obtained from a closer consideration of the formation of the systems. Additional terms will be linked to the Project GutenbergTM License for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.
Address delivered before a joint meeting of the Physical and Chemical Societies in Copenhagen, October 18, 1921. After Darwin's departure for Edinburgh, the principal theoreti- cal adviser and teacher in Cambridge right up to the Second World War was Fowler, who had become Rutherford's son-in-law. After a preliminary exploration of the experimental evidence by more primitive methods, this difficult task was eventually accomplished by the introduction of appropriate mathematical abstractions. After calcium the properties of the elements in the fourth period of the periodic system deviate, however, more and more from the corresponding elements in the previous periods, until in the family of the iron metals we meet elements whose properties are essentially different.
After expressing, on behalf of the visitors from abroad, gratitude to the Physical Society and the Cavendish Laboratory for the invitation to the Conference, and after referring to the great English traditions in the field of atomic research, the speaker opened the discussions onthe presentsituationin the theory of elementary particles by some general remarks, the essence of which is contained in the following abstract, althongh certain points have been reconsidered during its preparation. After further ingenious contributions by Jordan, Klein, and Wigner, this formalism found, as is well known, essential completion in the work of Heisen- berg and Pauli.
After his sta; m Copenhagen, Gamow came m 1929 to Cambridge, where his steady contributions to the interpretation of nuclear phenomena were highly appreciated by Rutherford, who also greatly enjoyed the bizarre and subtle humour which Gamow unfolded m daily intoercourse and to which he later gave so abundant expression in his well-known popular books." After his stay in Copenhagen, Gamow came in 1929 to Cambridge, where his steady contributions to the interpretation of nuclear phenomena were highly appreciated by Rutherford, who also greatly enjoyed the bizarre and subtle humour which Gamow unfolded in daily intercourse and to which he later gave so abundant expression in his well-known popular books.
After many failures on account of the smallness of the effects he obtained from the Curies a stronger source of radium and he was able to show that the ac-rays were positively charged particles projected from the radioactive atoms with high velocity and the value of the ratio of charge to mass deduced from the measurements indicated that they might well be helium with a double electric charge. After my return to Denmark was I married in mid-summer 1912 and, on our wedding trip in August to England and Scotland, my wife and I passed through Manchester to visit Rutherford and deliver the completed manuscript of my paper on the stopping problems.
After the theory was put forward, it became clear, however, that the observed lines must belong to a spectrum of helium, but that they were not like the ordinary helium spectrum emitted from the neutral atom. After three years secondary-school education he presented himself for the highly competitive university entrance scholarship although he had qualified for matriculation the previous year. After we obtained details as to the constitution of the atom, this difficulty became still more manifest; in fact, so long as we confine ourselves to the classical electrodynamic theory we cannot even understand why we obtain spectra consisting of sharp lines at all.
Again we have a case where the perturbations are simply periodic and where the period of the perturbations is independent of the form and position of the orbit, and in the present case, even of the major axis. Again, as at his secondary school, Rutherford was highly placed in his class examinations although he had at least one close rival. Al- though these three last papers are historical in character, they at the same time gave my father the opportunity to elucidate from new angles the general views which form the basic theme of the present as well as of the previous collections of essays.
Alas, he was not to live to see his speculative prognostications realized; after a short sharp illness he died 19 October :1937, but before referring to this further I will try to complete the story of the birth of practical atomic energy. All orbits with the same principal quantum number have, to a first approximation, the same major axis, while orbits with the same value of k have the same parameter, i.e. All the elementary particles concerned have some wave-like properties and every wave such as light or y-rays have some discrete particle-like properties. All these processes are independent of chemical and physical conditions and we are driven to the conclusion that the whole process is subatomic.
Almost every year, we were hospitably received in their beautiful home in Newnham Cottage at thebacks of the old colleges, with the lovely garden in which Ruther- ford found relaxation and the upkeep of which gave Mary Rutherford much enjoyable work. Almost every year, we were hospitably received m their beautiful home in Newnham Cottage at the backs of the old colleges, with the lovely garden in which Rutherford found relaxation and the upkeep of which gave Mary Rutherford much enjoyable work.
Already Blackett's observations with his ingenious automatic cloud- chamber technique had shown that, in the very process investigated in Rutherford's original experiments on artificial nuclear disintegra- tions, the incident oc-particle remained incorporated in the residual nucleus left after proton escape. Already Cockcroft and Walton's first experiments gave results of great signifi- ance in several respects.
Already during the war, it was, therefore, felt that a favourable foundation for later developments might be created by an early initiative aimed at inviting confidence by making all partners aware of the actual situation which would have to be faced, and by assuring them of willingness to share in the far- reaching concessions as to accustomed national preroga- tives which would be demanded from every side. Already for a free particle the knowledge of the whole, it would scarcely seem justifiable, in the On energy and momentum excludes, as we have seen, the problem to demand a visufliza caseof the interactionf exact knowledge of its space-time co-ordinates. Already for a seem to appear in the matrix formulation.
Already in 1926 a decisive contribution to the treatment of atoms with more than one electron had been made by Heisenberg's explana- tion of the peculiar duplicity of the helium spectrum, which through many years had remained one of the main obstacles for the quantum theory of atomic constitution. Already in 1928 Sommerfeld had, by replacing the Maxwell velocity distribu- tion of the electronsby a Fermi distribution, obtained most promising results in the elucidation of this problem. Already in his first paper on this subject, Sommerfeld pointed out that his theory evidently offered a clue to the interpretation of the more intricate structure of the spectra of other elements.
Already in the early Manchester days, it was understood that the apparent irregularities in the sequence of the atomic weights of the elements when they were 52 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE ordered according to their chemical properties suggested that, even for the stable elements, the nuclear charge could not be expected to have a unique relation to the nuclear mass. Already the formulation of the relativity argument im- plies essentially the nnionhf the space-time co-ordrnation and the demand of causality characterizing the classical theories. Already twenty years before, Pickering had observed in the spectra of distant stars a series of lines with wavelengths exhibiting a close numerical relationship with the 40 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE ordinary hydrogen spectrum.
Also G. R. Lewis and I. Langmuir have sought to account for the relations between the properties of the elements on the basis of a grouping inside the atom. Also Lawrence, who in more detail described his cyclotron construction, gave an account of the latest investigations of the Berkeley group. Also as regards the problem of the configuration of the electrons in the atom, Moseley's work was to initiate important progress. Also for the more complex case of heavier sub- stances, approximate agreement was ascertained with the expected atomic numbers and the estimated values for the binding energies of the electrons, but the theoretical methods were much too primitive to yield more accurate results.
Also in other fields of science recent progress has confronted us with a situation similar to that created by the development of atomic physics. Also in the presence of small magnetic forces, it will be possible to describe the motion of the perturbed system by means of a suitably chosen set of angle variables, if only the secular perturbations are of conditionally periodic type.
Also in the present case it follows therefore that will remain constant during the establishment of the external fields, and we see consequently that the expression on the right side of (85) will be simply equal to , a result which, with reference to the principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states, leads to the conclusion mentioned above, that the value of the additional energy in the stationary states of the perturbed system is given by the value of in these states. Also in the present case the agreement between action appears most strikingly. Also in the radioactive, chemically inactive gas niton, which completes this period, we observe the first preliminary step in the development of a group of electrons with 6quanta orbits.
Also in this respect, however, great progress has recently been obtained by the work of Einstein1 ) and Ehrenfest.2 ) On this state of the theory it might therefore be of interest to make an attempt to discuss the different applications from a uniform point of view, and especially to consider the underlying assumptions in their relations to ordinary mechanics and electrodynamics. Also the colours of the ions directly support our view of atomic structure. Also the photo-synthesis in plants is of 26 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE course, as recently discussed by Britten and Gamow, accompanied by an overall increase in entropy. Also, 64 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEO RY 65 even if the momentum of the particle were accurately denotes the length of the wavetrain.
Also, even if for the determination of momentum may be the momentum of the particle were accurately made as short as is desired if only the wave- known before the scattering process, our know- length of the radiation used is sufficiently small. Also, the neglect of the atomic constitution of the measuring instruments themselves, in the account of actual experience, is equally characteristic of the applications of relativity and quantum theory. Although I am quite ready to admit that these points involve great and unsolved difficulties, I am unable to agree with Nicholsons conclusions.
Although I did not on this occasion come into personal contact with Rutherford I received a deep impression of the charm and power of his personality by which he had been able to achieve almost the incredible wherever he worked. Although I must confess that today I do not take this view quite so strongly, I keep it strongly enough not to take part in this dis- cussion!" Although Planek's quantum theory in its application to radiation and thermodynamics had found much support, particularly in Germany, yet owing to the difficulty of its visualization as a physical model or in terms of classical physical concepts, his results were looked on by some as fortuitous.
Although Rutherford just at that time was concentrating on the pre- paration of his great book, Radioactive Substances and Their Radiations, he nevertheless followed my work with a constant interest, which gave me the opportunity to learn about the care which he always took in the publications of his pupils. Although Rutherford was always intensely occupied with the progress of his own work, he had the patience to listen to every young man, when he felt he had any idea, however modest, on his mind. Although Rutherford was as busy as ever, he showed an almost angelic patience with me, and after discussions through several long evenings, during which he declared he had never thought I should prove so obstinate, he consented to leave all the old and new points in the final paper.
Although Sommerfeld in this way has in fact succeeded in deriving formulae for the spectral terms which vary with n for a constant k in agreement with Rydbergs formulae, it has not been possible to explain the simultaneous variation with both k and n in any actual case. Although Thomsons assumption regarding the distribution of the positive electricity in the atom is not consistent with more recent experimental evidence, nevertheless his work has exerted great influence upon the later development of the atomic theory on account of the many original ideas which it contained. Although a great deal of work had been done on the present manu- it was still far from script, completion.
Although at first we encountered difficulties regarding the strict conservation of energy and momentum, these investigations led to further development of the notion of virtual oscillators as the connecting link between atoms and radiation fields. Although at the time of the meeting there could, of course, be no question of a comprehensive treatment of the problems raised by Planck's discovery, there was a general understanding that great new prospects had arisen for physical science. Although conclusions of the same degree of certainty cannot be reached it seems possible, however, to arrive at results consistent with general physical and chemical evidence by proceeding by means of considerations of the same kind as those applied to the binding of the first three electrons.
Although decisive progress in the consistent representation of quantum problems had evidently been achieved by the new formalism, itappeared for a time as though the correspondence requirements had not yet all been fulfilled. Although each emission of radiation must be assumed to be monochromatic and to proceed according to the general frequency condition we shall therefore expect the final effect to be a broadening of the sharp spectral lines of the unperturbed system. Although he did not himself make any further world-shaking discoveries such as the three I have endeavoured to outline, his powers never manifested themselves to better effect than in his leadership of the Laboratory, the glorious traditions of which he upheld in every way.
Although in more recent years I have had several occasions of meeting Einstein, the continued discussions, from which I always have received new impulses, have so far not led to a common view about the epistemological problems in atomic physics, and our opposing views are perhaps most clearly stated in a recent issue of Dialectica bringing a general discussion of these problems. Although in this formulation use is made of mathematical abstractions such as a four-dimensional non-Euclidean metric, the physical interpretation for each observer rests on the usual separation between space and time, and maintains the deterministic character of the description.
Although it is possible by such a procedure to separate to a large extent the proper mechanical description of atomic systems and their radiative reaction, we meet, asis well known, with divergencies in the treatment of radiation problems in higher approximations. Although it was just Kramers theory, Plancks constant, appears explicitly only in the treatment of dispersion that gave important hints for the algorithms to which the symbols, the so-called matrices, rational development of correspondence considerations, are subjected.
Although much important new evidence was obtained in these investigations, it was more and more felt that, for a broader attack on nuclear problems, the natural oc-ray sources were not sufficient and that it was desirable to have available intense beams of high-energy particles produced by artificial acceleration of ions. Although no ultimate limit is in sight for the knowledge we may gradually reach about the physical and chemical processes responsible for the organic functions, we must all the time be aware that the conditions for obtaining such knowledge may be incompatible with the sustainment of the life of the organism.
Although on this occasion I did not come into personal contact with Rutherford, I received a deep impression of the charm and power of his personality by which he had been able to achieve almost the incredible wherever he worked. Although our answers regarding the futility of SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 93 this prospect did not convince Einstein, who returned to the problems at the next conference, the discussions were an inspiration further to explore the situation as regards analysis and synthesis in quantum physics and its analogies in other fields of human knowledge, where customary terminology implies attention to the conditions under which experience is gained.
Although the apparent complete absence of a reflection in the X-ray spectra of the complicated relationships exhibited by most other properties of the elements was the typical and important feature of Moseley's discovery, we can recognize, nevertheless, in the light of the progress of the last years, an intimate connexion between the X-ray spectra and the general relationships between the elements within the natural system.
Although the convenient formulation of the theory involves mathe- matical abstractions as four-dimensional non-Euclidean geometry, its physical interpretation rests fundamentally on every observer's possi- bilityof maintaining a sharp separation between space and time and of surveying how any other observer, in his frame, will describe and co- ordinate experience by means of the common language. Although the curves generally run very uniformly, they exhibit a number of deviations from uniformity which have been especially brought to light by the recent investigation of Coster, who has for some years worked in Siegbahn's laboratory. Although the nucleus is assumed to be very small in proportion to the size of the whole atom, it will contain nearly the entire mass of the atom.
Although the present development of the theory does not allow us to account in detail for the observations, it seems that the considerations in paper IV. Although the series spectra of the elements of higher atomic number have a more complicated structure than the hydrogen spectrum, simple laws have been discovered showing a remarkable analogy to the Balmer formula. Although there is evidence of asymmetry of shape and spin in these particles which might bring magnetic forces into play, but these seem to be far too low in magnitude.
Although these spectra show a much more complicated structure than the hydrogen spectrum, given by formula (2) and the helium spectrum given by formula (7), nevertheless in many cases it has been possible to find simple laws for the frequencies exhibiting a close analogy with the laws expressed by these formulae. Although this explanation would account for the presence of helium in radioactive minerals he did not rest until by experiments several years later he had developed a method which allowed of no ambiguity.
Although we are not yet in a position to account in all details for the steps in the gradual development of the 3-quantum electron group, still we can say that with the help of the quantum theory we see at once why it is in the 4th period of the system of the elements that there occur for the first time successive elements with properties that resemble each other as much as the properties of the iron group; indeed, we can even understand why these elements show their wellknown paramagnetic properties.
Although we must assume that the ordinary mechanics cannot be used to describe the transitions between the stationary states, nevertheless, it has been found possible to develop a consistent theory on the assumption that the motion in these states can be described by the use of the ordinary mechanics.
Although, of course, the classical description of the experimental QUANTUM PHYSICS AND PHILOSOPHY 5 arrangement and the irreversibility of the recordings concerning the atomic objects ensure a sequence of cause and effect conforming with elementary demands of causality, the irrevocable abandonment of the ideal ofdeterminism finds striking expression in the complementary relationship governing the unambiguous use of the fundamental con- cepts on whose unrestricted combination the classical physical description rests.
Although, of course, the existence of the quantum of action is ultimately responsible for the properties of the materials of which the measuring instruments are built and on which the functioning of the recording devices depends, this circumstance is not relevant for the problems of the adequacy and completeness of the quantum-mechanical description in its aspects here discussed. Although, of course, we cannot without a detailed theory of the mechanism of transition obtain an exact calculation of the latter probabilities, unless n is large, we may expect that also for small values of n the amplitude of the harmonic vibrations corresponding to a given value of will in some way give a measure for the probability of a transition between two states for which n0 n00 is equal to .
Althoughthesecannot be combined in the customary manner of classical physics, they arecomplementary in the sense that only together they exhaust all knowledge as regards those properties of the objects which areunambiguously definable. Altogether, it would appear that, by making the de- mand for openness a paramount issue, quite new possi- bilities would be created, which, if purposefully followed up, might bring humanity a long way forward towards the realization of that co-operation on the progress of civilization which is more urgent and, notwithstanding present obstacles, may still be within nearer reach than ever before.
Among Rutherford's collaborators in the early Cambridge years were also Blackett and Ellis, both coming from a career in the defence services, Ellis having been initiated to physics by Chadwick during their comradeship under German imprisonment. Among other things this involved that the electrons in each group were supposed to be at the point of the orbit nearest the nucleus at the same time. Among others he was joined by the lecturer in physical chemistry F. Soddy and together they planned a general attack on the phenomena, Soddy doing the chemical work and Rutherford the measurement of the various radiations.
Among the conceivably possible states of motion in an atomic system there exist a number of so-called stationary states which, in spite of the fact that the motion of the particles in these states obeys the laws of classical mechanics to a considerable extent, possess a peculiar, mechanically unexplainable stability, of such a sort that every permanent change in the motion of the system must consist in a complete transition from one stationary state to another. Among the lasting contributions of Greek mathematicians to physical science, we think especially of the laws of equilibrium of supported and floating bodies.
Among the many advances in this period, it may especially be mentioned that the formalism proved capable of incorporating the exclusion principle which governs the states of systems with several electrons, and which already before the advent of quantum mechanics had been derived by Pauli from an analysis of atomic spectra. Among the most impressive of these developments is the modern rise of biochemistry which has been equally beneficial to physiology and 20 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE pharmacology. Among the processes which are conceivable and which according to the quantum theory might occur in the atom we shall reject those whose occurrence cannot be regarded as consistent with a correspondence of the required nature.
Among those who came to work with him was Otto Hahn who afterwards discovered the fission products of uranium. Among various illustrations of how intensely he was absorbed in his researches, a laboratory assistant in the Cavendish was reported to have noted that, of all the eager young physicists who through the years had worked in the famous laboratory, Rutherford was the one who could swear at his apparatus most forcefully. Among various illustrations of how intensely he was absorbed in his researches, a laboratory assistant in the Cavendish was reported to have noted that, of all the eager young physicists who through the years had worked in the famous laboratory, Rutherford was the one who could swear at his apparatus most forcefully."
An account of this discovery, which was made only a few months before the conference, was included in a report by Frederic Joliot and Irene Curie, containing a survey of many aspects of their fruitful researches, in which processes of (3-ray decay with emission of positive as well as negative electrons were ascertained. An adaption of Thomson's analysis for the case here considered of a ring rotating round a nucleus of negligibly small linear dimensions is given by :Nicholson t. The investigation of the problem in question naturally divides in two parts : one concerning the stability for displacements of the ~lectrons in the plane of the ring; one concerning displacements perpendicular to this plane.
An adequate tool for the complementary mode of description is offered by the quantum-mechanical formalism, in which the canonical equations of classical mechanics are retained while the physical variables are replaced by symbolic operators subjected to a non commutative algebra. An analogous situation is met with in the formulation of a quantum electrodynamics incorporating the photon concept. An analogy to these results is obtained by considering the simultaneous effect of an electric and a magnetic field on a system consisting of an electron rotating round a nucleus of infinite mass.
An answer to the last point was, however, easily found, since it was evident that the mass m in the expression for the Rydberg constant had be taken not to as the mass of a free electron but as the so-called reduced mass mM(m + M)~\ where M is the mass of the nucleus. An apology for entering on these general topics in connection with the acute problems facing the world today may perhaps be found in the circumstance that the pursuit of knowledge in a domain of science as remote from human passions as the study of the most elementary physical phenomena has not only forcefully impressed upon us how necessary is openness of mind for the search of truth, but also suggestively reminded us of the common basis of all endeavors for the elevation of human culture.
An atom may return or change to states of lower energy whether by further collision or spontaneously but when it does, the frequency of the emitted light radiation is equal to the change of energy between the states from which it starts and finishes respectively divided by Planck's universal constant 'h'. An atomic system possesses a number of states in which no emission of energy radiation takes place, even if the particles are in motion relative to each other, and such an emission is to be expected on ordinary electrodynamics. An attempt to encompass individual atomic reactions within the framework of classical radiation theory had been made in collaboration with Kramers and Slater.
An auspicious start was given to the general experimental work by a visit, at the opening of the laboratory, of James Franck, who during the following months most kindly instructed the Danish collaborators in the refined technique of excitation of atomic spectra by electron bombardment, which he had so ingeniously developed together with Gustav Hertz. An effect of a magnetic field on the line-spectrum of an element was discovered by Zeeman in 1896. An electric effect of the same order of magnitude as that for hydrogen lines has been observed only for the lines in the two diffuse series of the helium spectrum and the diffuse series of lithium. An electron in such an orbit will for the greater part of the time remain outside the orbits of the first ten electrons.
An elucidation of the situation should, indeed, demand a thorough examination of the very observational problem in atomic physics. An emanation glass container was made with thin walls such that the os-particles passed through the walls and were collected in an outer tube. An especially simple example of a magnetic field which possesses axial symmetry is afforded by the case of a homogeneous magnetic field, discussed in the beginning of this section. An example is offered in biology, where mechanistic and vitalistio arguments are used in a typically complementary manner. An exception to this, however, occurs if the electrons are arranged in rings and rotate in circular orbits, and from simple considerations of analogy the following assumption was proposed (see I. p. 24).
An idea of these facts is given by Fig. An illustration based on similar considerations which will throw light upon the spectra of other elements consists in finding the effect of a small perturbing field of force radially symmetrical with respect to the nucleus. An illustration of a system of this kind is presented by a particle moving in a field of force in which the force-components normal to three mutually perpendicular fixed planes are functions of the distances from these planes respectively. An illustrative example, of how the apparent paradoxes are removed by an examination of the experimental conditions under which the complementary phenomena appear, is also given by the Compton effect, the consistent description of which at first had presented us with such acute difficulties.
An immediate consequence of this situation is that observations regarding the behaviour of atomic objects obtained with different experimental ar rangements cannot in general be combined in the usual way of classical physics. An important contribution to WWW the problem of a consistent application of these methods IWWNS is expressed in com- has been made lately by Heisenberg. An important contribution to this problem was soon after given by Kossel, who pointed to the removal of an electron from one of the sequence of rings or shells surrounding the nucleus as the origin of the K, L, and M types of Barkla radiation.
An incident which amused Rutherford and us all was the remark of Lord Rayleigh in response to a solemn request by Sir Joseph Larmor to express his opinion on the latest developments. An initiative along such lines might seem beyond the scope of conventional diplomatic caution; yet it must be viewed against the background that, if the proposals should meet with consent, a radical improvement of world affairs would have been brought about, with en- tirely new opportunities for co-operation in confidence and for reaching agreement on effective measures to elinlinate common dangers. An insight into the kind of information that the closer investigation of the spectra has provided in this respect may be obtained from Fig.
An instructive application of the calculations in the last section may be made in connection with the fine structure of the hydrogen lines, which, according to Sommerfelds theory mentioned in Part I on page 31, may be explained by taking into account the small variation of the mass of the electron with its velocity, claimed by the theory of relativity. An instructive example of the appearance of periodic perturbations is obtained when hydrogen is subjected to the effect of a homogeneous electric field. An instructive illustration in this respect is Archimedes reluctance to rely on the methods, akin to modern infinitesimal calculus, by which he first derived his famous formulas for the volume of pyramids and spheres.
An interaction of this kind in which the orbital planes do not coincide can be attained only if the configurations in both subgroups exhibit a systematic deviation from tetrahedral symmetry. An interesting application of this to the spectrum of rotating molecules, given by Burgers, will be mentioned in Part IV. An interesting attempt to avoid this infinity has recently been made by Pais who has shown that, in first approximation,one can obtainin quantum theory a finite expression for the self-energy of a point charge if it isassumed to be coupled, not Problems of elementary-particle physics 3 only to the electromagnetic field, but also to a field of short range givingrise to an attraction between electric charges of same sign as small distances.
An investigation of the formal basis of the quantum theory shows us now, that it is possible to trace the question of the origin of the radiation processes which accompany the various transitions back to an investigation of the various harmonic components, which appear in the motion of the atom. An is met with in analogous situation positron theory where any arrange- ment suited for measurements of the charge distribution in space necessarily implies uncontrollable creation of electron pairs. An open world where each nation can assert itself solely by the extent to which it can contribute to the common culture and is able to help others with ex- perience and resources must be the goal to be put above everything else.
An outstanding achieve- ment was the clarification of the duplicity of the helium spectrum, long considered one of the greatest difficulties in the quantum theory of atomic constitution. An understanding of the essential of physical experience. Analogous to what applied to the group of 3quanta orbits it is probable that, when the group is completed, it will contain eight electrons in each of the four subgroups. Anew epoch in physical science was inaugurated, however, by Planck's discovery of the elementary quantum of action, which revealed a feature of wholeness inherent in atomic processes, going far beyond the ancient idea of the limited divisibility of matter. Another application of the method of interpreted by an explicit use of the quantum postulate.
Another consequence of Kossels view is that it should be impossible to obtain the series of an element without the simultaneous emission of the series. Another direct consequence of the above considerations is obtained if we consider a system for which, for all values of the constants 1 , . Another essential feature of the theory is the influence, on the strength of binding and the dimensions of the orbits, of the penetration of the later bound electrons into the region of the earlier bound ones, of which we have seen an example in the discussion of the origin of the potassium spectrum. Another example of more direct physical application is afforded by the effect of an external homogeneous electric field in producing new spectral lines.
Another example which has more direct physical importance, since it includes all the special applications of the quantum theory to spectral problems mentioned in the introduction, is formed by a conditionally periodic system possessing an axis of symmetry. Another important contribution to our systematic knowledge of the Xray spectra is contained in a recent paper by Wentzel. Another progress of the utmost consequence was Chadwick's dis- covery of the neutron, which represented so dramatic a development, resulting in the confirmation of Rutherford's anticipation of a heavy neutral constituent of atomic nuclei.
Another quotation I would like to make is one from McNaughton, Professor of Classics at McGill, who had shot many a satiric dart at scientists and their doings; 'plumbers' and 'destroyers of art' he had called them. Another simple example of the application of the correspondence principle is afforded by a central motion, to the investigation of which the explanation of the series spectra in the first approximation may be reduced. Another way of expressing the same meaning is that the radioactive constant expresses the probability for each atom that it shall disintegrate in the next succeeding time interval adopted. Any alternate format must include the full Project GutenbergTM License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.
Any argument for upholding barriers for information and intercourse, based on concern for national ideals or interests, must be weighed against the beneficial effects of common enlightenment and the relieved tension resulting from openness. Any arrangement which can offer safety against secret preparations for the mastery of the new means of de- struction would, as stressed in the memorandum, demand extraordinary measures. Any consistent use of the concept of of action itself, refers, however, to spin, just as that of the quantum phenomena resisting such analysis, and in particular the spin concept isan abstraction permitting a generalized formulation of the conserva- tion of angular momentum.
Any emission or absorption of energy radiation will correspond to the transition between two stationary states. Any remaining appearance of arbitrari- unknown. Any remaining appearance of arbitrariness concerns merely our freedom of handling the measuring instruments, characteristic of the very idea of experiment. Any secondary characteristics of the state of such molecules, corresponding to oscillations left from their formation, will indeed not essentially affect their chemical properties and will even, due to the general thermal agitations in the medium, rapidly lose all connection with their previous history.
Any such terminology would, however, appear dubious since, on the one hand, it is hardly reasonable to endow nature with volition in the ordinary sense, while, on the other hand, it is certainly not possible for the observer to influence the events which may appear under the conditions he has arranged. Any widening of the borders of our knowledge im- poses an increased responsibility on individuals and nations through the possibilities it gives for shaping the conditions of human life. Apart from his interest in the transformations themselves Rutherford was keenly alive to the problem of the exact nature of the radiations themselves and particularly the ac-rays which were to be his particular interest for the rest of his life-used as tools to probe other atoms.
Apart from special cases, the system will during the motion never pass twice through a configuration corresponding to the same set of values for the qs and ps, but it will in the course of time pass within any given, however small, distance from any configuration corresponding to a given set of values q1 , . Apart from such objections which may be only formal (see p. 23) it inust be remarked, that the theory in the form given does not seem to be able lo account for the well-known laws of Bahner and Rydberg connecting the frequencies of the lines in the line-spectra of the ordinary elements. Apart from the agreement with the calculations, Starks experiments seem to give strong support to the interpretation of the origin of the two outer components.
Apart from the im- mediate understanding of essential features of radioactive transforma- tions and of the existence of isotopes which the model provided, the application of quantum theory to the electron binding in the atom had then made considerable progress. Apart from the intricacies,alreadyknown in classical electron theory,connected with the coupling between a charged particle and the electromagnetic field it generates, we must in quantum electrodynamics, owing to the fluctuations of the field intensities even in photon-free space,take into account a new contribution to the self-energy.
Apart from the marked symmetry of the resolution of every line, the distances between successive components and their relative intensities varied in an apparently irregular way from component to component. Apart from the possible loss of mass by radiation from the fragments before barium and krypton appeared, there seemed a possibility that several neutrons were emitted directly in the fission explosion. Apart from the serious objections which may be raised against his calculation of the perturbations, difficulties arise if we try to apply the correspondence principle to Landes results in order to account for the occurrence of two distinct spectra showing no mutual combinations.
Apparently the only way to reconcile radiation theory with the principles of ordinary statistical mechanics was the suggestion by Jeans that under the experimental conditions one did not have to do with a true equilibrium but with a quasi-stationary state, in which the production of high-frequency radiation escaped notice. Applying Hamiltons principle, we get for a small variation of the orbit If the new orbit is also one of dynamical equilibrium, we get where is the total energy of the system, and it will be seen that the equivalence of (8) and (11) follows immediately from (12). Applying the relation (1) and using the same arguments as in paper IV.
Applying this assumption to the emission of a line-spectrum, and assuming that a certain spectral line of frequency corresponds to a radiation emitted during the transition of an elementary system from a state in which its energy is to one in which it is we have According to Balmer, Rydberg, and Ritz the frequency of the lines in the line-spectrum of an element can be expressed by the formula where and are whole numbers and a series of functions of which can be expressed by where is a universal constant and a function which for large values of approaches the value unity. Appreciation of mathematics as a guide in natural philosophy also dates back to the days of the ancient Greeks.
Apt the same time, the momentum are associated with the concept of particles, rppgilfility of identifying the velocity of the particle with and, hence, may be characterized accordipgflfipp classical the group-velocrty indicates the field of application of point of WEE by definite space-time co-or mates, t 6 space-time pictures in the quantum theory. As Hevesy has himself humorously described, he was led to this method by the negative results of elaborate work under- taken as a response to a challenge by Rutherford who had told him that, "if he was worth his salt", he ought to be helpful by separating the valuable radium D from the large amount of lead chloride extracted from pitchblende and presented to Rutherford by the Austrian Govern- ment.
As Hevesy has himself humorously described, he was led to this method by the negative results of elaborate work undertaken as a response to a challenge by Rutherford who had told him that '' if he was worth his salt '' he ought to be helpful by separating the valuable radium D from the large amount of lead chloride extracted from pitchblende and presented to Rutherford by the Austrian government." As I emphasized when considering the formation of the hydrogen atom, the postulates of the quantum theory aim directly at this point, but the results obtained in this way for an atom containing a single electron do not permit of a direct elucidation of problems like that of the distribution in groups of the electrons in an atom containing several electrons.
As I have attempted to show in recent years, it appears possible, however, to adopt a point of view which suggests that the quantum theory may, nevertheless, be regarded as a rational generalization of our ordinary conceptions. As I have mentioned already the lines of most spectra show a complex structure. As I have mentioned we may consider it to be an established fact that it is impossible to obtain a satisfactory explanation of the experiments on temperature radiation with the aid of electrodynamics, no matter what atomic model be employed. As I pointed out in my former paper, this result may be connected with the non-appearance in vacuum-tubes of hydrogen lines corresponding to high numbers in Balmers formula and observed in the spectra of stars.
As Icholsoa's calculations show, the answer to the question of stability differs very much in the two cases in question. As Kirchhoff and Bunsen had already shown, there is a close relation between the selective absorption of substances for radiation and their emission spectra, and it is on this that the application of spectrum analysis to the heavenly bodies essentially rests. As Sommerfeld was able to show, the components this gives for each hydrogen line agree with the observations on the fine structure of hydrogen lines to within the limits of experimental error.
As Wilson later told me, his interest in these beautiful phenomena had been awakened when as a youth he was watching the appearance and disappearance of fogs as air currents ascended the Scottish mountain rid ges and again descended in the valleys." As Wilson later told me, his interest in these beautiful phenomena had been awakened when as a youth he was watching the appearance and disappearance of fogs as air currents ascended the Scottish mountain ridges and again descended in the valleys. As a consequence of the secular variations, the orbit will pass through a cycle of shapes and positions, which will depend on its original shape and position and on the character of the perturbing field, but not on the intensity of this field.
As a consequence of this the conditions (22) will generally not remain mechanically invariant when we pass a degenerate system, what has intimate connection with the above mentioned ambiguity in the determination of the stationary states of such systems by means of (22). As a first approximation these may be described as two circular orbits, whose planes make an angle of 120 with one another, in agreement with the conditions which the angular momentum of an atom according to the quantum theory must satisfy. As a more appropriate way of expression, I advocated the application of the word phenomenon exclusively to refer to the observations obtained under specified circumstances, including an account of the whole experimental arrangement.
As a more appropriate way of expression, one may strongly advocate limitation of the use of the word phenomenon to refer exclusively to observations obtained under specified circumstances, including an account of the whole experiment. As a physicist I have, of course, no such insight in the field of pharmacy as is possessed in richest measure by the many distinguished scientists from different countries who are here assembled. As a relation from PSmck's theory is used, we might expect that *he radiation is sent out in quanta, but systems like those considered, in which the frequency is a function of the energy, cannot be emitted a finite amount of a homogeneous radiation ; for, as soon as the emission of radiation is started, the energy and also the frequency of the system are altered.
As a result of the radiation of energy W would continually increase, and the above expressions (4) show that at the same time the frequency of revolution of the system would increase, and the dimensions of the orbit decrease. As a result of these perturbations both electrons move in such an extremely complicated way that the stationary states cannot be fixed by the methods developed for conditionally periodic systems. As a result of this it will be possible to release a single electron from the interaction with the other electrons in the same group by a process which possesses the necessary analogy with an absorption process on the ordinary electrodynamic view claimed by the correspondence principle.
As a result the stationary states must be characterized by more than two quantum numbers, in the same way that the occurrence of deviations of the orbit of the electron in the hydrogen atom from a simple periodic orbit requires that the stationary states of this atom shall be characterized by more than one quantum number. As a simple illustration of these calculations let us consider the system consisting of a particle moving in a plane and subject to an attraction from a fixed point, which varies proportional to the distance apart. As a token of appreciation, the University conferred upon him an honorary degree, and on that occasion he gave a most stimulating and humorous address which was long remembered by all present.
As all the assumptions used in this latter way of repre- senting the theory are of what we may call a qualitative character, we are justified in expecting if the whole way of considering is a sound one an absolute agreement between the values calculated and observed for the constant in question, and not only an approximate agreement. As already emphasized in the article mentioned, this situation therefore implies no limitation whatever in the application to biology of the physico-chemical methods of description and investigation; in fact, the appropriate use of such methods-just as even in atomic physics all our experiences must rest upon experimental arrangements classically described-remains our sole and inexhaustible source of information about biological phenomena.
As already indicated, this question presented insurmountable difficulties when treated by ordinary ideas of mechanics and electrodynamics, according to which no system of point charges admits of stable static equilibrium, and any motion of the electrons around the nucleus would give rise to a dissipation of energy through electromagnetic radiation accom- panied by a rapid contraction of the electron orbits into a neutral system far smaller than the size of atoms derived from general physical and chemical experience. As already mentioned, the foundation for the hypothesis E was sought in analogy with the simple system consisting of one electron and one nucleus. As an arrangement suited for such purpose, Einstein proposed the device indicated in Fig.
As an example of the discussions from those days, I might mention how a doubt, expressed by Heisenberg regarding the possibility of explaining the Stern-Gerlach effect in terms of wave propagation, was dissipated by Oskar Klein. As an illustration of the latter considerations, Burgers has deduced an expression for the relative values of the a-priori probability of the different stationary states of the undisturbed hydrogen atom, by means of an enumeration of the states, determined by the conditions (22) when applied in connection with a separation of variables in polar coordinates, which correspond to a stationary state of the undisturbed atom, characterised by a given value of n in the condition I = nh.
As an introduction to the subject, stress was laid on the decisive part international cooperation has played in creating, in the course of comparatively few years, a whole new branch of science which, at the same time as it has to such a high degree deepened our insight in the phenomena of nature, has led to practical consequences of immense implication for the future of civilization, calling for a thorough revision of our attitude to the whole question of international relationships.
As an objection to the view that a control of the interchange of momentum and energy between the objects and the measuring instruments was excluded if these instruments should serve their purpose of defining the space-time frame of the phenomena Einstein brought forward the argument that such control should be possible when the exigencies of relativity theory were taken into consideration. As argued in the memorandum, it would seem most fortunate that the measures demanded for coping with the new situation, brought about by the advance of science and confronting mankind at a crucial moment of world affairs, fit in so well with the expectations for a future intimate international co-operation which have found unanimous expression from all sides within the nations united against aggression.
As both Sommerfeld and Debye have pointed out, lines are not observed corresponding to every transition between the stationary states included in the formula. As em- interpreted as periods of revolution. As emphasised by Einstein, Indeed, in the description of atomic pheno- every observation or measurement ultimately rests mena, the quantum postulate presents us with on the coincidence of two independent events at the task of developing a complementarity theory the same space-time point. As emphasised by Heisenberg, the based on assumptions which can scs.roel(y be simplicity of the case of the oscillator, however, is geparated from the group of problems of the exceptional and intimately connected with the quantum theory.
As emphasized by Einstein, every physics in the century passed since the death of the observation or measurement ultimately rests on the great genius, whom we are here assembled to com- coincidence of two independent events at the same space- memorate. As everyone knows, another approach to the fundamental problem of quantum physics had been initiated in 1924 by Kramers, who a month before the conference had succeeded in developing a general theory of dispersion of radiation by atomic systems.
As explained in Part I, there will in general be no simple connection between the motion of a system in the stationary states and the spectrum emitted during transitions between these states; such a connection, however, must be expected to exist in the limit where the motions in successive stationary states differ comparatively little from each other. As far as the applications are concerned, the first part of the assumption C might just as well have been given the following more cautious form: The relation between the frequency and energy of the particles in the stationary states can be determined by means of the ordinary laws of mechanics if these laws lead to periodic orbits.
As far as the construction of machines is con- cerned, such materials are formed once and for all by more or less regular crystalline accumulations of atoms, while in the living organisms we have to do with a remarkable rhythm of another kind where mole- cular polymerisation which, when carried on indefinitely, would make the organism as dead as a crystal, is time and again interrupted. As far as the frequencies are concerned we see therefore that in the limit where n is large there exists a close relation between the ordinary theory of radiation and the theory of spectra based on (1) and (10).
As far as the frequencies are concerned, we thus see that for conditionally periodic systems there exists a connection between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation of exactly the same character as that shown in 2 to exist in the simple case of periodic systems of one degree of freedom. As far as the frequencies of the components are concerned, this result has been predicted by Sommerfeld and Debye, who have treated the problem under consideration by means of separation of variables in polar coordinates (compare page 165).
As first pointed out by Weisskopf, this theory leads, owing to exchange effects between the electron and the negative energy electrons of the '' sea ", toan expression for the total field self-energy of the type W(r) - Nmc2 log ( ti/mcr) ......( 4) andit ismost significant that this expression, in contrast to (3), is small compared with mc2 if YAY,, although, of course, it becomes infinite for r = 0.
As for systems of one degree of freedom we must therefore conclude that, in the limit of large values for the ns, the probability of spontaneous transition between two stationary states of a conditionally periodic system, as well as the polarisation of the accompanying radiation, can be determined directly from the values of the coefficient C1 ,..., s in (31) corresponding to a set of s given by k = n0k n00k , if n01 , . As for the case of a single electron we get that the angular momentum of each of the electrons is equal h to ~ . As gradually became clear, this idea would indeed explain Aston's dis- coveries of isotopes of nearly all elements with atomic masses closely approximated by multiples of the atomic weight of hydrogen.
As has been shown, especially by the investigations of Wagner and de Broglie, the absorption in the Xray region, on the other hand, is connected not with the Xray lines but with certain spectral regions commencing at the socalled absorption edges. As in Thomsons theory, it was assumed that the electrons moved in circular orbits and that the electrons in each separate group during this motion occupied positions with reference to one another corresponding to the vertices of plane regular polygons.
As in figures 2 and 3 of the sodium spectrum, we have disregarded the complexity of the spectral terms, and the numbers characterizing the stationary states are simply the quantum numbers n and k. For the sake of comparison the scale in which the energy of the different states is indicated is chosen four times as small for the spark spectra as for the arc spectra. As in the case of a single electron, we have here that the total amount of energy emitted during the formation of the system is equal to the final kinetic energy of the electrons.
As in the case of the Stark effect, it will moreover be seen that this formula includes the values of the energy in such states of the atom, in which the electron moves in a circular orbit perpendicular to the direction of the field, and which beforehand must be expected to be included among the stationary states of the perturbed system, since such orbits during a slow and uniform establishment of the external field will not undergo secular perturbations as regards shape and position (compare page 143).
As in the case of the transformation and completion of the group of 3quanta orbits in the fourth period and the partial completion of groups of 4quanta orbits in the fifth period, we may immediately deduce from the length of the sixth period the number of electrons, namely 32, which are finally contained in the 4quanta group of orbits. As in the former section , it is assumed that the spectra considered above are due to the displacement of a single electron. As in the present theory, it is assumed that any radiation emitted from the atom is due to a transition of the system between two steady states, and that the frequency of the radiation is determined by the relation (1).
As in we shall further see, that this connection leads to certain general considerations about the probability of transition between any two stationary states and about the nature of the accompanying radiation, which are found to be supported by observations. As is evident from the formula (10), the helium spectrum under consideration should contain, besides the lines observed by Fowler, a series of lines lying close to the ordinary hydrogen lines. As is immediately seen, this is very different from what we might expect if the result of the collisions was governed by the usual mechanical laws. As is known, calculations on the latter basis are in agreement with experiments on the energy radiation in the named region.
As is shown by the investigation of the spark spectrum of calcium, the binding of the 19th electron in the 4I orbit is here but little stronger than in 33 orbits, and as soon as we reach scandium, we must assume that the 33 orbit will represent the orbit of the 19th electron in the normal state, since this type of orbit will correspond to a stronger binding than a 4I orbit. As is well do with a development which in a novel known, we have here to manner has restored and enlarged that isotropy in space and reversi- bility in time which has been one of the basic ideas of the classical physical approach.
As is well known he has thrown light upon many features of the structure of the atom and of the origin of spectra by observing the effect of bombarding atoms by electrons of various velocities. As is well known this has been done by Lorentz (1903). As is well known, Bloch succeeded on this basis by appropriate use of wave mechanics in SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 95 developing a detailed theory of metallic conduction explaining many features,especially regarding the temperature dependence of the phenomena.
As is well known, Laue's discovery was the direct incentive to the brilliant explorations of crystalline structures by William and Lawrence Bragg, who by analysing the reflection of monochromatic radiation from the various sequences of parallel plane configurations of atoms in crystal lattices were able both to determine the wavelength of the radiation and deduce the type of symmetry of the lattice. As is well known, Lorentz succeeded in explaining this result on the basis of the classical electron theory.
As is well known, Oppenheimer, shortly after his visit to Cambridge, during his studies in Gottingen was among the first who called atten- tion to the phenomenon of particle penetration through potential barriers, which should prove basic for the ingenious explanation of oc-decay by Gamow and others. As is well known, a mode of description suitable to this situation has been found in the so-called quantum mechanics, in which sufficient freedom for the consistent co6rdination of the new regularities has been achieved by the substitution for the usual kinematical and dynamical quantities of symbols which obey laws of calculation of a novel type. As is well known, an appropriate treatment of the problem by modern methods of quantum mechanics was first achieved in 1930 by H. Bethe.
As is well known, con- tinued studies in many laboratories along such lines were rapidly to increase our knowledge of nuclear constitution and transmutation processes. As is well known, it has been pos- with ever-increasing accuracy, because it infloves our sible here, by means of an elementary use of classical knowledge of the initial state of the system. As is well known, it has been theorem from a measurement of the change of possible here, by means of an elementary use of momentum of the microscopeincluding light classical concepts and in harmony with the quan- source and photographic plateduring the pro- tum postulate, to throw light on essential aspects of cess of observation.
As is well known, it was the intimate relation, elucidated primarily by Boltzmann, between the laws of thermodynamics and the statistical regularities exhibited by mechanical systems with many degrees of freedom, which guided Planck in his ingenious treatment of the problem of thermal radiation, leading him to his fundamental discovery. As is well known, many of the difficulties in psychology originate in the different placing of the separation lines between object and subject in the analysis of various aspects of psychical experience. As is well known, system is naturally no longer possible, and there canbe the doubts regarding the validity Df the superposition no question of causality in the ordinary sense of the word.
As is well known, the every particular case it is a question of convenience doubts regarding the validity of the superposition principle on one hand and of the conservation laws * The content of this papar is exzentially tho same us that of 3 lecture h cory delivered on Sej on the other, which were suggested by this apparent 1927, at the Valta celebration in Como. As is well known, the methods of quantum theory have also proved decisive for the clarification ofmany problems regarding the constitu- tion and stability of the atomic nuclei themselves. As is well known, the pertinence of this comparison soon received a decisive confirmation with the discoveries by Davisson and Germer and by George Thomson of selective scattering of electrons in crystals.
As is well known, the starting point for Dirac was his recognition that his relativistically invariant formulation of quantum mechanics applied to electrons included, besides the probabilities of transition processes between ordinary physical states, also expectations of transi- tions from such states to states of negative energy. As is well known, these regularities are adequately described by the symmetry properties of the, wave functions repre senting the state of the whole systems. As is well known, this goal was largely achieved with- in a few decades by the cooperation of a whole generation of physicists, which in intensity and scope resembles that taking place in these years in genetics and molecular biology.
As is well known, this has made possible a unified formulation of the phenomena appearing in different frames of reference, and through this brought to light the fundamental equivalence of hitherto separate physical regularities. As is well known, this view eventually found its final expression through Pauli's formulation in 1924 of the general exclusion principle for electron binding states, inspired by Stoner's derivation of finer details of the shell structure of the Rutherford atom from an analysis of the regularities of the optical spectra.
As is well known, this work, which brought so much information about the process of electron capture, THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 69 was to attract new attention a few years after Rutherford's death when, with the discovery of the fission processes of heavy nuclei by neutron impact, the study of the penetration of highly charged nuclear fragments through matter, where electron capture is the dominating feature,came into the foreground.
As is well known, this work, which brought so much information about the process of electron capture, was to attract new attent10n a few years after Rutherford 's death when, with the discovery of the fission processes of heavy nuclei by neutron impact, the study of the penetration of highly charged nuclear fragments through matter, where electron capture is the dominatmg feature, came intoo the foregrou nd." As iswell known, the existence of such mesons was already, before their detection in cosmic radiation by Anderson in 1937, anticipated by Yukawa as quanta for the short-range force fields between the nucleons, differing so essentially from the electromagnetic fields studied in the first approach to quantum physics.
As it ap- more regard has to be taken to the quantum postulate in pears already from the considerations of de Broglie connection with the perception of the agencygf observa- mentioned above, the concept of velocity must always in tion, be it through its direct action upon the eye or the quantum theory be handled with caution. As it is well known, Planck was led to this fundamental discovery by his ingenious analysis of such features of the thermal equilibrium between matter and radiation which, according to the general principles of thermodynamics, should be entirely independent of any specific properties of matter, and accordingly of any special ideas on atomic constitution.
As it should be expected from (68), the components of these lines were found to show frequency differences several times larger than those of the hydrogen lines, and from his measurements Paschen concluded, that it was possible on Sommerfelds theory to account completely for the frequencies of all the components observed. As it was done originally by Sommerfeld and Epstein, both these problems can also be treated by means of the theory of the stationary states of conditionally periodic systems which allow of separation of variables in a fixed set of positional coordinates.
As it will appear from the following applications this problem may, quite independent of the possibility of separation of variables for the perturbed system, be treated directly on the basis of the fundamental relation between energy and frequency in the stationary states of periodic or conditionally periodic systems, discussed in Part I, if only the solution of the equations (46) is of a periodic or conditionally periodic character. As it will be discussed more closely in Part III, it is possible in this way to account in detail for the manifold results, regarding the appearance of such series in the helium spectrum, which have been published quite recently by J. Stark (Ann.
As it will be seen from the applications mentioned in the following Parts this is supported in a general way by comparison with the observations. As it will be seen, such an absorption of radiation is just what is observed in experiments on ionization by ultra-violet light and by R5ntgen rays. As it will be shown by Kramers, these calculations allow to account in particulars for the observations of the relative intensities of the components of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines and the analogous helium lines, as well as for the characteristic way in which this phenomenon is influenced by the variation of the experimental conditions.
As it will be shown in Part II in connection with the physical applications, this condition is just secured if the stationary states in the presence of the field are determined by the conditions (22), and it will be seen that these considerations offer a means of fixing the stationary states of a perturbed periodic system also in cases where no separation of variables can be obtained. As may be seen from the postulates of the quantum theory, and particularly the frequency relation, a direct connection between the spectra and the motion of the kind required by the classical dynamics is excluded, but at the same time the form of these postulates leads us to another relation of a remarkable nature.
As mentioned above and as we have alIn this connection it may be mentioned that the method of Schwarzschild of fixing the stationary states of a conditionally periodic system, mentioned on page 36, consists in seeking for a given system a set of canonically conjugated variables Q1 , . As mentioned above we must assume that the complexity of the spectral terms, corresponding to given values of n and k, which we witness in the fine structure of the spectral lines, may be ascribed to states, corresponding to different values of this angular momentum, in which the plane of the electronic orbit is orientated in a different manner, relative to the configuration of the previously bound electrons in the atom.
As mentioned above, J. Stark has recently discovered that the presence of an external electric held produces a characteristic effect on the line-spectrum of an element. As mentioned above, the total variations of the constants 2 , . As mentioned in the introduction, a detailed theory of the characteristic effect of an external homogeneous electric field sideration obtains a striking confirmation by the observation of the appearance of new series of lines in the ordinary series spectra of helium and other elements, when the atoms are exposed to an intense external electric field.
As mentioned in the introduction, a progress of fundamental importance in the treatment of such problems was made by Sommerfeld, who obtained a convincing explanation of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines by means of his theory of the stationary states of central systems, in which the single condition I = nh was replaced by the two conditions (16); and the theory was further developed by Epstein and Schwarzschild, who on this line established the general theory, based on the conditions (22), of the stationary states of a conditionally periodic system for which the equations of motion may be solved by means of separation of variables in the Hamilton-Jacobi partial differential equation.
As mentioned in the introduction, however, Sommerfeld and others have recently succeeded, by means of a suitable generalisation of (10), to obtain conditions for an important class of systems of several degrees of freedom, which, in connection with (1), have been found to give results in convincing agreement with experimental results about line-spectra. As mentioned in the introduction, the above hypothesis will be used in a following communication as a basis tbr a theory of the constitution of atoms and molecules. As mentioned on p. 9 the radii of the orbits of the electrons will for stationary states corresponding to high values for "r be very great compared with ordinary atomic dimensions.
As mentioned on page 64, we have in this case, quite independent of the possibility of separation of variables for the perturbed system, that in general the motion under the influence of the external field may still be represented as a sum of harmonic vibrations by a formula of the type (31), if we look apart from small terms proportional to the square of the perturbing forces. As mentioned this follows directly from relation (8), which shows at the same time that for a system for which every motion is periodic the frequency will be completely determined by I or by the energy only.
As mentioned this formula gives the same result as (80); in fact, if we put n = n1 + n2 + n3 and if we look apart from the small correction due to the finite mass of the nucleus, the first term in (81) is seen to coincide with the expression for Wn given by (41), while the last term in (81) coincides with the last term in (80), if we put n = n3 . As mentioned we cannot without a more detailed theory of the mechanism of transition between stationary states obtain quantitative information as regards the general question of the intensities of the different lines of the spectrum of a conditionally periodic system given by (26), except in the limit where the ns are large numbers, or in such special cases where for all values of the constants 1 , .
As might perhaps expect that in estimating the accu- it appears already from the considerations of de racy of determining the ition, not only the Broglie mentioned above, the concept of velocity convergence but also the length of the wave-train must always in the quantum theory be handled has to be taken into account, because the particle with. As one of those who in the course of time have attended several of the Solvay conferences and have had personal contact with many of the participants in the earliest of these meetings, I have welcomed the invitation on this occasion to recall some of my reminiscences of the part played by the discussions for the elucidation of the problems confronting us.
As one who in early youth had the good fortune to join the group of physicists working under Rutherford's inspiration, and owes so much to his warm friendship through the many succeeding years, I welcome the task of recalling some of my most treasured remembrances. As one who in early youth had the good fortune to jom the group of physicists working under Rutherford's inspiration, and owes so much to his warm friendship through the many succeeding years, I welcome the task of recalling some of my most treasured remembrances. As pointed out by Ehrenfest, the conditions (16) of 2 are invariant for such special transformations of the system for which the central symmetry is maintained.
As pointed out by Epstein and Schwarzschild, however, it is possible by means of (78), in connection with relation (1), to account in a convincing way for Starks measurements as regards the frequencies of the components. As pointed out by Epstein2 ) and Schwarzschild3 ) the 1 ) In this connection it may be remarked that conditions of the same type as (16) were proposed independently by W. Wilson (Phil. As pointed out by Kossel, the experimental results exhibit an extreme simplicity, the magnetic moment of the ions depending only on the number of electrons in the ion.
As pointed out by Planck in connection with the application of (9), it is simply seen that statistical considerations, based on the assumption of equal probability for the different states given by (10), will show the necessary relation to considerations of ordinary statistical mechanics in the limit where the latter theory has been found to give results in agreement with experiments. As pointed out by Sommerfeld and by Debye, the frequencies of a Lorentz triplet are included among the frequencies of the components deduced from (81) by application of relation (1).
As pointed out by scription is offered by the abstraction of fms, Heisenberg, atoms with different orientation in the field affindamental' distinction between time and space, how- may only be separated if the deviation of the beam is ever, would seem to be excluded by the relativity re- larger than the diffraction at the slit of the de Broglie quirement. As pointed out by the named authors, we are therefore faced at this stage with a completely free choice whether we want to determine the one or the other of the latter quantities by a process which does not directly interfere with the particle concerned.
As pointed out by the writer in an earlier paper, a simple explanation of the pronounced analogy between these spectra and the hydrogen spectrum is offered by the fact, that the atomic systems, involved in the emission of the spectra under consideration, in a certain sense may be regarded as a perturbed hydrogen atom. As pointed out by the writer in the papers referred to in the introduction, these assumptions offer an immediate interpretation of the fundamental principle of combination of spectral lines deduced from the measurements of the frequencies of the series spectra of the elements.
As pointed out in Part I on page 64, this condition would also seem to obtain an independent support from considerations of conservation of angular momentum during a transition between two stationary states. As pointed out in Part I, it is possible moreover to throw light on the question of the intensities and polarisations of these components on the basis of the necessary formal relation between the quantum theory of line spectra and the ordinary theory of radiation in the limit where the motions in successive stationary states differ very little from each other.
As pointed plementary to one another,depends essentially out by the named authors, we are therefore on the impossibility, in the field of quantum faced at this stage with a completely free choice theory, of accurately controlling the reaction of whether we want to determine the one or the the object on the measuring instruments, other of the latter quantities by a process which the transfer of momentum in case of position does not directly interfere with the particle measurements, and the displacement in case of concerned. As previously mentioned the spectrum of an element consists of a series of lines whose wave lengths may be expressed by the formula (2). As regards agency of observation not to be neglected.
As regards all such points, the observation problem of quantum physics in no way differs from the classical physical approach. As regards his own attitude, Sommerfeld added that instead of trying from such considerations to deduce Planck's constant, he would rather take the existence of the quantum of action as the fundament for any approach to questions of the constitution of atoms and molecules. As regards light, its propagation hand, the definition of the state of a physical system, as in space and time is adequately expressed by the electro- ordinarily understood, claims the elimination om magnetic theory.
As regards our knowledge of fellow beings, we witness, of course, only their behaviour, but we must word consciousness is unavoidable when such behaviour realize that the isso complex that its account in common language entails reference to self-awareness. As regards quantum electrodynamics, great progress was just at that time initiated by the work of Schwinger and Tomonaga, leading to the so-called renormalization procedure involving corrections of the same order as a, especially conspicuous in the discovery of the Lamb effect. As regards that education in mutual understanding which at present is more necessary than ever, attention was called to the fact that comparison between different human cultures besides obvious relative features discloses typical complementary relationships.
As regards the K group which contains the most penetrating Xrays, Moseley found that the strongest line for all elements investigated could be represented by a formula which with a small simplification can be written 1 1 2 . As regards the account of the conversations I am, of course, aware that I am relying only on my own memory, just as I am prepared for the possibility that many features of the development of quantum theory, in which Einstein has played so large a part, may appear to himself in a different light.
As regards the application of (9) to statistical problems it was assumed in Plancks theory that the different states of the vibrator corresponding to different values of n are a-priori equally probable, and this assumption was strongly supported by the agreement obtained on this basis with the measurements of the specific heat of solids at low temperatures.
As regards the application of the conditions (61) it is of importance to point out that, from considerations of the invariance of the a-priori probability of the stationary states of an atomic sysEpstein proposes therefore the assumption, that some of the conditions to be fulfilled in the stationary states of the systems in question may be obtained by putting the Is thus defined equal to entire multipla of h. It will be seen that, in case of systems possessing an axis of symmetry, this leads to the second of the conditions (61), which expresses the condition that in the stationary states the total angular momentum round the axis must be equal to an entire multiple of h/2.
As regards the binding of the 13th electron we meet in aluminium an absorption spectrum different in structure to that of the alkali metals. As regards the binding of the fourth, fifth and sixth electrons in the atom, we do not possess a similar guide as no simple series spectra are known of beryllium, boron and carbon. As regards the closer description of the stationary states we find that the electron will very nearly describe an ellipse with the nucleus in the focus. As regards the comparison between the theory and the experiments, it will be remembered that Stark found that every hydrogen line in the presence of an electric field was split up in a number of polarised components, in a way different for the different lines.
As regards the detailed discussion of these spectra, however, it is necessary to bear in mind that the part played by the inner electrons in the atoms of the elements in question forms a far more intricate problem than the perturbing effect of a fixed external field on the hydrogen atom. As regards the expression for the total energy of the hydrogen atom in the presence of the magnetic field, formula (80) is in agreement with the formul obtained by Sommerfeld and Debye on the basis of the conditions (22), holding for conditionally periodic systems which allow of separation of variables. As regards the final result, the number 18 indicates that after the group is finally formed there will be three subgroups containing six electrons each.
As regards the fixation of the stationary states we shall not, however, follow the same procedure as used by the authors just mentioned, which rests upon the immediate application of the conditions (22), but it will be shown how the conditions which fix the stationary states of the perturbed atom may be obtained by a direct examination of the small deviations of the motion of the electron from a simple Keplerian motion.
As regards the form of the conditions which fix the stationary states, it may be noted, however, that with the choice of orbital constants under consideration the s will not, as it was assumed for the sake of simplicity in the general discussion on page 100, oscillate between fixed limits, but it will be seen that 2 during the perturbations may either oscillate between two such limits or increase (or decrease) continuously, while 3 will always vary in the latter manner.
As regards the other stationary states fixed by (22), which correspond to n3 > 1, we shall according to the considerations in Part I expect that their a-priori probabilities are all equal.1 ) 1 ) By a simple enumeration it follows from this result, that the total number of different stationary states of the hydrogen atom, subject to a small homogeneous electric field, which corresponds to a stationary state of the undisturbed atom, characterised by a given value of n in the condition I = nh, is equal to n(n + 1).
As regards the possible values of the total energy of the hydrogen atom in the presence of the electric field, it will be seen that (78) coincides with (77) if we put n1 + n2 + n3 = n and n1 n2 = n. At the same time it will be observed, however, that the motion in the stationary states, as fixed by the procedure followed by Epstein, is more restricted than was necessary in order to secure the right relation between the additional energy and the frequency of the secular perturbations. As regards the problem of atomic constitution, a new impulse was given by the publication in 1914 of the famous experiments by Franck and Hertz on the excitation of atoms by electron impact.
As regards the problem of the intensities and polarisation of these components, we may further proceed in a way quite analogous to that followed in 2. As regards the problem of the statistical distribution of the different stationary states between a great number of atomic systems of the same kind in temperature equilibrium, the number of systems present in the different states may be deduced in the well known way from Boltzmanns fundamental relation between entropy and probability, if we know the values of the energy in these states and the a-priori probability to be ascribed to each state in the calculation of the probability of the whole distribution.
As regards the quantum-mechanical description of atomic phenomena, emphasis is laid on its consistency within a wide scope and, especially, on the elucidation of the well-known paradoxes as regards the problem of " physical reality" through the recognition that, in the proper quantum effects,we have to do with phenomena where no sharp separation is possible between anindependent behaviour of the objects and their interaction with the measuring agencies necessary for the definition of the observable phenomena.
As regards the quantum-mechanical description, we have to deal here with a two-body system consisting of the diaphragm as well as of the particle, and it is just with an explicit application of conservation laws to such a system that we are concerned in the Compton effect where, for instance, the observation of the recoil of the electron by means of a cloud chamber allows us to predict in what direction the scattered photon will eventually be observed.
As regards the question of the completeness of the quantum-mechanical mode of description, it must be recognized that we are dealing with a mathematically consist_ent scheme which is adapted within its scope to every process of measurement and the adequacy of which can be judged only from a comparison of the predicted results with actual observations.
As regards the question of the probability of spontaneous transition between the stationary states, we get moreover, just as in 2, from a consideration of the harmonic vibrations into which the motion of the electron can be resolved, that only two types of transitions will be possible; in transitions of the first type n2 remains unaltered, and the accompanying radiation is polarised parallel to the direction of the common axis of the perturbing fields; in transitions of the second type n2 decreases or increases by one unit, and the accompanying radiation will be circularly polarised in a plane perpendicular to this axis.
As regards the spark spectra, the structure of which has been cleared up mainly by Fowlers investigations, it has been possible in the case of many elements to express the frequencies approximately by means of a formula of exactly the same type as (12), only with the difference that K, just as in the helium spectrum given by formula (7), is replaced by a constant, which is four times as large.
As regards the special problem treated by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen, it was next shown that the consequences of the formalism as regards the representation of the state of a system consisting of two interacting atomic objects correspond to the simple arguments mentioned in the preceding in connection with the discussion of the experimental arrangements suited for the study of complementary phenomena. As regards the specification of the conditions for any well- defined application of the formalism, it is moreover essential that the whole experimental arrangement be taken into account.
As regards the total energy of the perturbed system, it may next be proved that, looking apart from small quantities proportional to the square of the intensity of the external forces, the difference in the total energy in two slightly different states of the perturbed system, for which the values of I, I1 , . As regards the very concepts of space and time reflected in the as here and there, and before and after, it is to primitive use of words be remembered how essential the immense speed of light propagation, velocities of the bodies in our neighbourhood, is compared with the for our ordinary orientation.
As regards this picture, the idea of connecting the grouping with a classification of electron orbits according to increasing quantum numbers was suggested by Moseley's discovery of the laws of X-ray spectra, and by Sommerfeld's work on the fine structure of these spectra. As regards this point the postulates give no direct information, but here the correspondence principle is brought in. As regards thiscrucial problem, it appeared to me that the very necessity of a concerted effort to fore: stall such ominous threats to civilization' would offer quite unique opportunities to bridge international divergencies.
As regards thisproblem, I tried tentatively to arrange the electron orbits in closed rings resembling the shell structure originally introduced by J. J. Thomson in his early attempt to account by his atomic model for the periodicity features in Mendeleev's table of the elements. As remarked by Heisenberg, one 68 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 69 may even obtain an instructive illustration of the 4. As repeatedly stressed, the principal point is here that such measurements demand mutually exclusive experimental arrangements.
As shown by Jacobi this problem can be solved by a separation of variables if so called elliptical coordinates are used, i. e. if for ql and q2 we take two parameters characterising respectively an ellipsoid and a hyperboloid of revolution with the centres as foci and passing through the instantaneous position of the moving particle, and for q3 we take the angle between the plane through the particle and the centres and a fixed plane through the latter points, or, in closer conformity with the above general description, some continuous periodic function of this angle with period 2.
As shown by Sommerfeld, it is possible on this theory to account in general outlines for the well known laws governing the frequencies of the series spectra of the elements; and, as it will be shown in Part III, it is also possible, on the basis of the formal relation between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation, in this way to obtain a simple interpretation of the laws governing the remarkable differences in the intensities with which the various series of lines appear, which on the combination principle would constitute the complete spectra under consideration.
As shown by de Broglie from metal erystals, requires the use of the (These, Paris, 1924), the translational velocity of wave theory superposition principle in accordance the individuals associated with the waves can be with the original ideas of L. de Broglie. As shown by de Broglie, mentary waves corresponding to all values of v and am, the translational velocity of the individuals associated 0,, 0,. As shown by these authors, a system, which consists of an electron moving under the influence of the attraction from a fixed nucleus and of a homogeneous magnetic field, allows of separation of variables in polar coordinates, if the polar axis is chosen parallel to the magnetic field.
As soon as the atom is left to itself again, its constituent particles must arrange their motions in a manner which is completely determined by the electric charges and masses of the particles. As soon as we are really con- The treatment of the radiation problem by the cerned with a time problem, however, the considera- new quantum theoretical methods meant to begi tion of a strictly closed system is excluded. As soon as we are really concerned with by relation (1), we realize that the condition for separa- a time problem, however, the consideration of a strictly bility mentioned just means the loss of the phase. As soon as we attempt a more accurate other particle.
As soon as we attempt a more accurate time description of quantum phenomena, we meet with well-known new paradoxes, for the elucidation of which further features of the interaction between the objects and the measuring instruments must be taken into account. As soon, however, as the energy of the electron reaches this critical value, a new type of collision takes place, in which the electron loses all its kinetic energy, while at the same time the vapour is excited and emits a radiation corresponding to the yellow line.
As standing this contrast, however, a formal connexion remarked by Heisenberg, one may even obtain an with the classical ideas could be obtained in the instructive illustration to the quantum theoretical limit, where the relative difference in the pro- description of atomic (microscopic) phenomena by perties of neighbouring stationary states vanishes comparing this uncertainty with the uncertainty, asymptotically and where in statistical applications due to imperfect measurements, inherently con- the discontinuities may be disregarded.
As stressed by Heisenberg, particles and applying a symbolic method closely this chan%e will, in the case of atoms in stationary related to the deep-going treatment of the radiation states of low quantum number, consist in general problem developed by Dirac from the point of view in the ejection of the electron from the atom. As stressed in the lecture, an adequate tool for a complementary way of description is offered precisely by the quantum-mechanical formalism which represents a purely symbolic scheme permitting only predictions, on lines of the correspondence principle, as to results obtainable under conditions specified by means of classical concepts.
As the best known of the attempts in this direction, from which, however, no definite results were obtained, I may mention the work of Stark, Sommerfeld, Hasenohrl, Haas, and Nicholson. As the necessary condition for an emission of the radiation in question was the presence of systems in the state AI, we must assume that the necessary condition for an absorption of the radiation is the presence of systems in the state A~. As the next speaker, Rutherford gave a detailed account of the numerous phenomena which in the meantime had received such convincing interpretation by his atomic model. As the result appeared promising, Rutherford accepted Cockcroft's proposal to build a high- voltage accelerator for such experiments.
As the simplest illustration of the principles discussed in the former section we shall begin by considering systems of a single degree of freedom, in which case it has been possible to establish a general theory of stationary states. As the table shows, the following electrons are bound in 2-quantum orbits. As the theoretical value for the latter amount of workwhich for the sake of simplicity will be represented by W corresponds to an ionization potential of 13.53 volts, the ionization potential of helium would be expected to be 28.8 volts.
As there can hardly be question for humanity of renouncing the prospects of improving the material conditions for civilization by atomic energy sources, a radical adjustment of international relationship is evidently indispensable if civilization shall survive. As they pass through the surrounding gas or through metal foils they are slowed down by successive collisions with the electrons in the atoms in their path so that they have practically the same 'range'. As to Rutherford, the subject of my talk to-night, I can best conclude with the tribute of Sir James Jeans given at the time of his reading of the Presidential address to the Indian Science Conference in January 1938 which had been prepared by Rutherford about two months before his untimely death.
As to the application of the preceding considerations to special problems, it will be seen in the first place that in case of a perturbed periodic system possessing two degrees of freedom, as for instance that considered in the example on page 82, the problem of the fixation of the stationary states of the perturbed system in the presence of a small external field allows of a general solution on the basis of the method developed above, because in this case the secular perturbations will in general be simply periodic. As to the emanation, they proved it to be of high molecular weight analogous to the rare monatomic gases found in the atmosphere, quite unaffected by chemical reagents but capable of condensation by liquid air.
As to the interesting point of the peculiar variation of the magnetic moments within the family of rare earths, van Vleck reported about the latest results and their theoretical interpretation. As to the transitions themselves, their causes and speed of action, the idea was that it was not a question of the moment of transition but of the probability. As usual Rutherford wished to consolidate his theory as soon as possible. As utilization of Schrodingers electric density as a measure stressed by Heisenberg, this change will, in the case of of the probability for electrons being present within atoms in stationary states of low quantum number, con- given space regions of the atom.
As was suggested some time ago, especially by Born, the circumstance that the limit for the simple applications of such concepts in quantum theory, in case of electrons and electromagnetic fields, appearscomparablewith yo, would even seem to leave open the possibility that a propertreatment of the self-energy problemmightaccountfor the electron mass in a mannerwhich,notwithstanding its essentially different basis, resembles the programme originally foreshadowed by classical electron theory. As we have already mentioned, it is necessary to assume that the emission of the latter spectra is connected with processes which may be described as a reorganization of the completely formed atom after a disturbance produced in the interior of the atom by the action of external forces.
As we have already seen, this discovery made it quite clear that by classical conceptions alone it was quite impossible to understand the most essential properties of atoms. As we have seen, ciprocal exclusion of the conception of stationary the identification of a stationary state by means of states and the description of the behaviour of collision or radiation reactions implies a gap in the individual particles in the atom might be regarded time description, which is at least of the order of as a difficulty. As we have seen, the identification of latter theory with experience is based on assumptions a stationary state by means of collision or radiation re- which can scarcely Be separated from the group o???
As we have seen, the optical spectra of elements provide us with evidence on the progress of the last steps in this building-up process. As we have seen, this determined not only the properties of neon as an inactive gas, but in addition the electronegative properties of the preceding elements and the electropositive properties of the elements which follow. As we know today, the solution of such problems demanded the development of a mathematical formalism, the proper interpretation of which implied a radical revision of the foundation for the unambigu- ous use of elementary physical concepts and the recognition of com- plementary relationships between phenomena observed under different experimental conditions.
As we shall see below, consideration of the relation between the energy and the motion of the system shows that k must be numerically less than n, if, as before, we place the quantity En equal to the energy Wn of the nth stationary state of the undisturbed atom. As we shall see below, these variations may, with an approximation sufficient for our purpose, be obtained directly by taking mean values on both sides of the equations (44). As we shall see below, this ambiguity will not influence the fixation of the total energy in the stationary states, which is the essential factor in the theory of spectra based on (1) and in the applications of the quantum theory to statistical problems.
As we shall see later the adoption of a new point of view when considering the stability of the atom renders it possible to bring the different results in a natural way in connection with one another. As we shall see, convincing support for this law has since been obtained in various ways, especially by Moseley's famous investigations of the X-ray spectra of the elements. As we shall see, such a of space-time pictures. As we shall see, such a procedure necessitates energy and momentum during observation could not a further departure from visualization in the usual sense.
As we shall see, this feature of the binding process in atoms with many electrons is of essential importance in order to understand the characteristic periodic way in which many properties of the elements as displayed in the natural system vary with the atomic number. As we shall see, this seems to be consistent with Starks experiments. As we shall see, this view seems to offer a simple explanation of the laws observed for the variation of the distances between the components in a series of double lines.
As well known, the frequencies of the lines of the series spectrum of hydrogen may, if we look apart from the fine structure of the single lines revealed by instruments of high dispersive power, be represented by the formula 1 1 , (35) =K n002 n02 where K is a constant, and n0 and n00 a set of two entire numbers, different for the different lines of the spectrum. As will be shown, this hypothesis is, concerning the question of stability for a displacement of the electrons perpendicular to the plane of the ring, equivalent to that used in ordinary mechanical calculations. As you already know, Balmers discovery of the law relating to the hydrogen spectrum led to the discovery of laws applying to the spectra of other elements.
As, in general, the orbit will cover everywhere dense an s-dimensional extension limited in the characteristic way Downloaded from https://www.holybooks.com 35 mentioned above, it follows that, except in cases of degeneration, a separation of variables will not be possible for two different sets of coordinates q1 , . Assuming for the present that the external forces possess a constant potential given as a function of the qs, we have according to the theory of perturbations that the rates of variation of the orbital constants of the osculating orbit will be given by1 ) d dk = , dt dk dk d = , dt dk (k = 1, .
Assuming that the motion in the stationary states may be determined by ordinary mechanics, and neglecting for the moment the small modifications claimed by the theory of relativity, we find that each of the particles will describe an elliptical orbit with their common centre of gravity at one of the foci, and from the well known laws for a Keplerian motion we have that the frequency of revolution and the major axis 2 of the relative orbit of the particles, quite independent of the degree of eccentricity of this orbit, are given by r 2W 3 (M + m) N e2 , 2 = , (37) = 2 N 2 e4 M m W where W is the work necessary to remove the electron to infinite distance from the nucleus, while N e and M are the charge and the mass of the nucleus, and e and m the charge and the mass of the electron.
At a distance from the centre of the atom, great in comparison with the distances of the inner electrons, the total force due to the nucleus and the inner electrons will be very nearly equal to that from a nucleus of a single positive charge. At a distance the force may be expressed by where, may vary with the direction of the line from the nucleus to the outer electron, as well as with the time. At a time when Rydbergs laws were still in want of further confirmation Pickering (1897) found in the spectrum of a star a series of lines whose wave lengths showed a very simple relation to the ordinary hydrogen spectrum, since to a very close approximation they could be expressed by the formula 1 1 1 .
At about the same time as the counting of individual a-particles Rutherford with Royds made a beautiful experiment which directly proved that each ox-partiele when it loses its charge or acquires two neutralizing electrons becomes an atom of helium. At about this stage Rutherford may have begun to see the practical possibilities of obtaining energy from atomic transformations, for in the Watt Anniversary Lecture in 1936 he stated 'The recent discovery of the neutron and the proof of its extraordinary effectiveness in producing transformations at very low velocities opens up new possibilities, if only a method can be found of producing slow neutrons in quantity with little expenditure of energy'.
At any given moment t > 0 we have then Z tX Z 0 s s + t X qk dt qk dt, E = qk qk 0 1 1 which gives by partial integration Z 1 0 E = dt t , where the values for the qs to be introduced in in the first term are those corresponding to the motion under the influence of the increasing external field, and the values to be introduced in the second term are those corresponding to the configuration at the time t. Neglecting small quantities of the same order as the square of the external force, however, we may in this expression for E instead of the values for the qs corresponding to the perturbed motion take those corresponding to the original motion of the system.
At any rate in biological, and not least in medical research, the actual approach to the problems must take the entity of the organism into account, and progress depends on upholding the proper balance between so-called mechanistic and vitalistic argumentations which, in a certain sense, are complementary to each other. At first Maclaurin secured the nomination and he was certainly a fine man and exceptionally able. At first glance one might, therefore, think that it would scarcely be possible to bring our formal explanation of the combination principle into direct relation with our views regarding the constitution of the atom, which, indeed, are based on experimental evidence interpreted on classical mechanics and electrodynamics.
At first sight it might also appear to entail a far greater increase in the atomic volume than that actually observed. At first this radiation was assumed to be of y-ray type, but with Chadwick's thorough familiarity with the multifarious aspects of radiative phenomena he clearly per- ceived that the experimental evidence was not compatible with this view. At his laboratory in Manchester for example he had working with him men and women from Japan, Germany, Denmark, Sweden, Holland, Russia, Poland, Austria, Italy, U.S.A. and practically all the Common- wealth countries while his correspondence shows that he was in active correspondence with scientific leaders from all these and other countries.
At present it seems impossible to obtain a detailed interpretation of Moseleys results, but much light seems to be thrown on the whole problem by some recent interesting considerations by W. Kossel Kossel takes the view of the nucleus atom and assumes that the electrons are arranged in rings, the one outside the other.
At present, it would seem futile topursuesuch considerations more closely, but they are here indicated only as a suggestion of how intimately the particle and field concepts may have to be interwoven in a comprehensive theory, andto stress the dualistic character of these concepts, which has its root in the circumstance that the properties of the particles, like their mass and charge, are defined by the fields of force they produce or the effect of fields upon them and, inversely, the fields are themselves only defined through their action on the particles. At that time I was taken into confidence about the great enterprise which had already then reached an advanced stage.
At that time new possibilities of research were opened by Urey's discovery of the heavy hydrogen isotope H or 2 deuterium, and by the construction of the cyclotron by Lawrence, who in his first investigations on nuclear disintegrations by deuteron beams obtained a number of new striking effects. At that time no such perspectives were yet at hand, but the development of the physical ideas had just entered a new stage. At that time, assisted by Robinson, Rutherford was busily engaged in the analysis of (3-ray emission and, in cooperation with Andrade, studied y-ray spectra.
At that time, no general self-consistent quantum theory was yet in sight, but the prevailing attitude may perhaps be illustrated by the following passage from a lecture by the writer from 1913: I hope that I have expressed myself sufficiently clearly so that you may appreciate the extent to which these considerations conflict with the admirably consistent scheme of conceptions which has been rightly termed the classical theory of electrodynamics. At the Solvay meetings, Einstein had from their beginning been a most prominent figure, and several of us came to the conference with great anticipations to learn his reaction to the latest stage of the development which, to our view, went far in clarifying the problems which he had himself from the outset elicited so ingeniously.
At the beginning, Charles Darwin, whose mathematical insight had been so helpful in the Manchester years, shared with Ralph Fowler responsibility for the theoretical part of the activities at the Cavendish. At the conference a comprehensiveexposition of the theoretical treatment of magnetic phenomena was given in a report by Pauli. At the conference, detailed reports on the new experimental evidence were followed by most interesting comments from many sides on its theoretical interpretation. At the conference, many features of radioactive processes were discussed,.
At the end of the fifth period we may assume that xenon, the atomic number of which is 54, has a structure which in addition to the two 1quantum, eight 2quanta, eighteen 3quanta and eighteen 4quanta orbits already mentioned contains a symmetrical configuration of eight electrons in 5quanta orbits consisting of two subgroups with four electrons each in 51 and 52 orbits respectively. At the end of this group an uncertainty exists, due to the fact that no element of atomic number 72 is known with certainty. At the foot of the figure the vertical lines indicate where, according to the theory, we should first expect, in the normal state of the atom, the occurrence of nk orbits of the type designated.
At the general discussion in Como, we all missed the presence of Einstein, but soon after, in October 1927, I had the opportunity to meet him in Brussels at the Fifth Physical Conference of the Solvay Institute, which was devoted to the theme "Electrons and Photons." At the meeting, at- tended by Madame Curie, there was in particular a general discussion about the problem of radiation with the participation of such authori- ties asRayleigh, Larmor and Lorentz, and especially Jeans, who gave an introductory survey of the application of quantum theory to the problem of atomic constitution. At the next meeting with Einstein at the Solvay Conference in 1930, our discussions took quite a dramatic turn.
At the occasion Einstein brought up new arguments, by which he tried to circumvent the indeterminacy principle by utilizing the equivalence of energy and mass derived from relativity theory. At the outcome of the discussion, to which Einstein himself contributed effectively, it became clear, however, that this argument could not be upheld. At the present state of the theory it seems best to assume that in the silicon atom the four last captured electrons will move in 31 orbits forming a configuration possessing symmetrical properties similar to the outer configuration of the four electrons in 21 orbits in carbon.
At the same time as these discoveries add to our knowledge of the complexity of the organisms, they point to possibilities of physical mechanisms which hitherto have escaped notice. At the same time as this development holds out such great promise for the improvement of human welfare it has, in placing formidable means of destruction in the hands of man, presented our whole civilization with a most serious challenge.
At the same time he emphasized the fact that the effect should not consist of a continuous widening of the lines such as might be expected from classical theory, which imposed no restrictions on the molecular rotations, but in accordance with the quantum theory he predicted that the lines should be split up into a number of components, corresponding to a sequence of distinct possibilities of rotation. At the same time it may be of interest to mention that the properties of these elements compared with those of the foregoing period nevertheless show a difference corresponding exactly to what would be expected from the difference in the types of orbits.
At the same time that our view of the atom leads to a natural conception of the phenomena of emission and absorption of Xrays, agreeing closely with that by which Kossel has attempted to give a formal explanation of the experimental observations, it also suggests a simple explanation of those quantitative relations holding for the frequencies of the lines which have been discovered by Moseley and Sommerfeld. At the same time that this development has thus removed the last traces of the traditional prejudice that, due to the coarseness of our senses, any proof of the actual existence of atoms would forever remain beyond the reach of human experience, it has revealed still deeper features of atomicity in the divisibility of matter.
At the same time the from the caugal description of Nature met with in asymptotical connexion with the classical theory, radiation phenomena, to which we have referred to which a distinction between free and bound above in connexion with the excitation of spectra. At the same time we get a striking impression of the insufficiency of the ordinary electrodynamical and mechanical conceptions for the description of atomic processes, not only as regards the emission of radiation but also in such phenomena as the collision of free electrons with atoms.
At the same time we understand why the electropositive character of these elements is less marked than in the case of lithium, since the electrons in the 2quanta orbits will be much more firmly bound on account of the stronger field in which they are moving. At the same time, Heisenberg (1925) had laid the foundation of a rational quantum mechanics, which was rapidly developed through important contributions by Born and Jordan as well as by Dirac. At the same time, an optical instrument, provided radiation of however, the general character of this relation sufficiently short wave-length is used for illumina- makes it possible to a certain extent to reconcile tion.
At the same time, as this picture suggests a qualitative explanation of the similarity of the chemical properties of the elements in the latter part of the second and third periods, it also opens up the possibility of a natural explanation of the conspicuous difference from a quantitative aspect. At the same time, it affords some indication of how we may perceive in the quantum theory, in spite of the fundamental character of this departure, a natural generalization of the fundamental concepts of the classical electrodynamic theory. At the same time, just in a field like this time point. At the same time, the study of the physico-chemical effects of radiation on the organisms is rapidly proceeding.
At the same time, those reluctant to enter on the course proposed would have been brought into a position difficult to maintain since such opposition would amount to a confession of lack of confidence in the strength of their own cause when laid open to the world. At the same time, with his whole independent attitude, he had only little respect for authority and could not stand what he called "pompous talk". At the same time, with his whole independent attitude, he had only little respect for authority and could not stand what he called ' pompous talk '.
At the time of the conference, preliminary progress had been made by the utilization of general arguments to ensure the upholding of thermodynamical principles and the asymptotic approach of the description of the classical physical theories in the limit where the action involved is sufficiently large to permit the neglect of the indi- vidual quantum. At the up a consistent theory of atomic phenomena, which may same time the asymptotical connection with the classical be considered as a rational generalization of the causal theory, to which a distinction between free and bound space-time description of classical physics.
At this occasion I shall, therefore, only remind of the new lesson regarding our position as observers of natural phenomena, which the development of atomic physics has impressed upon us, and point to the bearing of this lesson on our attitude to fundamental problems in biological and medical sciences. At this occasion, however, it may be appropriate to comment on the intimate connection between our knowledge in all branches of science. At this occasion, it may therefore be appropriate to review the attitude which scientists through the ages have taken to the question of the relationship between physics and biology and especially to discuss the outlook created in this respect by the extraordinary development of atomic theory in recent time.
At this stage World War I broke out and the laboratory team was dispersed and the experiments so far carried out were hurriedly written up. At this stage in his career although he had refused several lucrative and tempting posts offered to him at famous universities in the U.S.A. where he had a host of warm friends, Rutherford was approached by Professor A. Schuster of Manchester who wished to retire and stated that he would be glad to do so if he could be assured that Rutherford would succeed him; he did so in 1907. At this stage of his career (1919, shortly after the end of the war) Rutherford accepted a call to be Director of the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, in succession to his former professor Sir J. J. Thomson and such men as Maxwell and Rayleigh.
AtAE= Ax A1,: Ay A1,: A2 A1,: h, ......(2) The circumstan mer is in encral greater as determining the highest possible accuracy in the 60 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 61 definition of the energy and momentum of the indi- possible to a certain extent to reconcile the conservation viduals associated with the wave-field. Atomic stability ad electrodynamic theory As soon as we try to trace a more intimate connexion between the properties of the elements and atomic structure, we encounter profound difficulties, in that essential differences between an atom and a planetary system show themselves here in spite of the analogy we have mentioned.
Attempts at solving the problem by a reformulation of classical electron theory, fundamental for the correspondence treatment, were clearly frustrated by the dependence of the strength of the singularities on the kind of quantum statistics obeyed by the particle in question. Aturning point in the development was reached by Planck's discovery, in the first year of our century, of the universal quantum of action revealing a feature of wholeness in atomic processes com- pletely foreign to classical physical ideas and even transcending the ancient doctrine of the limited divisibility of matter.
Author: Niels Bohr Release date: March 1, 2024 Language: English Original publication: London: Taylor & Francis, 1914 Credits: Laura Natal Rodrigues (Images generously made available by The Internet Archive. Author: Niels Bohr Release date: March 2, 2024 Language: English Original publication: London: The London, Edinburgh, and Dublin Philosophical Magazine and Journal of Science, 1915 Credits: Laura Natal Rodrigues (Images generously made available by The Internet Archive.) B O H R an electric field, which had been discovered by Stark in the year 1914. B O H R conclusions as regards the structure of the atom. B O H R normal state of electrons in 43 orbits. B O H R of the lines being proportional to the relative intensity as estimated by Stark from the blackening of the photographic plate.
B O H R who some years ago in connexion with investigations of X-ray spectra proposed a grouping of electrons in the atoms of the elements, which in many ways shows a likeness to that which is given in the above table. BY a closer consideration, however, it would appear that the potentialities of the project as a means of in- spiring confidence just under these circumstances acquire actual importance. Balmer, as we know, discovered (1885) that it was possible to represent the wave lengths of these lines very accurately by the simple law 1 1 1 , (1) =R n 4 n2 where R is a constant and n is a whole number.
Bearing this in mind I have sought to convey the impression that the results, on the other hand, fulfill, at least in some degree, the expectations that are entertained of any theory; in fact, I have attempted to show how the development of atomic theory has contributed to the classification of extensive fields of observation, and by its predictions has pointed out the way to the completion of this classification. Because of the symmetrical nature of the field of force about the nucleus, however, the motion of each single electron can be approximately described as a plane periodic motion on which is superimposed a uniform rotation in the plane of the orbit.
Because of their immense complexity, it is not surprising that the organisms reveal properties and potentialities which are in striking contrast with those exhibited by so-called inanimate matter under simple reproducible experimental conditions. Because of this circumstance, the orbits will deviate very greatly from a simple Kepler motion, since they will consist of a series of successive outer loops that have the same size and form, but each of which is turned through an appreciable angle relative to the preceding one. Before Heisenberg came THE GENESIS OF QUANTUM MECHANICS 75 to Copenhagen for a longer stay in the fall of 1924, we had the pleasure of seeing him.
Before I conclude, I should like briefly to call attention to the source of biological knowledge which the so-called psychical experience con- nected with life may offer. Before I leave the interpretation of the chemical properties by means of this atomic model I should like to remind you once again of the fundamental principles which we have used. Before attempting to answer this question it will first be necessary to consider in more detail what the quantum theory teaches us about the general character of the binding process.
Before closing I only wish to say that I hope I have expressed myself sufficiently clearly so that you have appreciated the extent to which these considerations conflict with the admirably coherent group of conceptions which have been rightly termed the classical theory of electrodynamics. Before concluding I should still like to emphasize the bearing of the great lesson derived from general relativity theory upon the question of physical reality in the field of quantum theory. Before concluding thesetentative remarks, reference must be made to the new line of approach initiated by Heisenberg, the aim of which is to create a frame sufficiently wide for a consistent theory of atomic phenomena by limiting the descriptionmore explicitly to directly observable features.
Before concluding this lecture I should like to mention one further point in which X-ray investigations have been of importance for the test of the theory. Before considering any further the nature of the oscillating systems let us see whether it is possible to bring this assumption about the emission of radiation into agreement with the spectral laws. Before considering other spectra, where numerous opportunities will be found to use this point of view, I shall briefly mention an interesting application to the Planck oscillator.
Before considering the series spectra of elements of low atomic number I shall point out how the occurrence or nonoccurrence of certain transitions can be shown by the correspondence principle to furnish convincing evidence in favour of Sommerfelds assumption about the orbit of the outer electron. Before entering into the problems to be discussed, I need recall only briefly how often the development of physics has taught us that a consistent application even of the most elementary concepts indispensable for the description of our daily experience, is based on assumptions initially unnoticed, the explicit consideration of which is, however, essential if we wish to obtain a classification of more extended domains of experience as clear and as free from arbitrariness as possible.
Before entering on the detailed discussion of the necessary modifications to be introduced in the general considerations in 2, in order that they may be applied also to the problem of the fixation of the stationary states of the atom in the presence of external magnetic forces, we shall for the sake of illustration first show how it is possible in certain cases to treat the problem of the effect of a homogeneous magnetic field on the hydrogen spectrum in a simple way, which will be seen to present a close formal analogy with the theory originally devised by Lorentz on the basis of the classical theory of electrons.
Before entering on these calculations, however, it may be observed that the part played by the constants 1 and 1 differs essentially from that played by the other orbital constants 2 , . Before leaving the carbon atom I should mention, that a model of this atom in which the orbits of the four most lightly bound electrons possess a pronounced tetrahedric symmetry had already been suggested by Lande. Before leaving the description of the elements within the second period it may be pointed out that the above considerations offer a basis for interpreting that tendency of the neutral atoms of oxygen and fluorine for capturing further electrons which is responsible for the marked electronegative character of these elements.
Before leaving the general theory of perturbed periodic systems we shall still consider the problem of the effect on the spectrum of a periodic system, undergoing secular perturbations of conditionally periodic type under the influence of a given small external field, if this system is further subject to the influence of a second external field which is small compared with the first field, but the perturbing effect of 1 ) Note added during the proof. Before leaving the hydrogen spectrum I shall consider briefly the effect of the variation of the mass of the electron with its velocity.
Before matter presents us with W. The we enter upon his results, it will be advantageous to show individuality of the elementary electrical corpuscles is how the complementary nature of the description ap forced upon us by general evidence. Before proceeding further, it might be of interest to note that this fixation of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom perturbed by external electric and magnetic forces does not coincide in certain respects with the theories of Sommerfeld, Epstein and Debye. Before proceeding it may be useful to restate briefly the ideas characterizing the calcu- lations on p. 5.
Before proceeding with the applications of the equations (46) which apply to the case of a constant perturbing field, it will be necessary to consider the effect of a slow and uniform establishment of the external field. Before proceeding, however, I must ask your forbearance if initially I deal with matters already known to you, but in order to introduce you to the subject it will first be necessary to give a brief description of the most important results which have been obtained in recent years in connection with the work on atomic structure. Before that time invention and other improvements in the arts had proceeded for the most part slowly and gradually and independent of organized science or set the pace for scientists to follow.
Before the theoreti- cal aspects of this development were discussed at the conference, the participants had been told about another decisive progress, namely the discovery of so-called artificial radioactivity, produced by controlled nuclear disintegrations. Before we as I%:ven by relation (1). Before we enter on the discussion of the results of the calculations of these authors, we shall first, however, show how the problem may be treated in a simple way by means of the considerations about perturbed periodic systems, developed in 2.
Before we leave the discussion of this question, we shall for a moment return to the question of the significance of the agreement .between the observed and calculated values of the constant entering in the expressions (4) for the Balmer series of the hydrogen spectrum. Before we proceed to the applications of this result we shall mention a simple consequence of (6) for systems for which every orbit is periodic independent of the initial conditions. Below we shall return to the relation of wave mechanics to the general formulation of the pqqp=\/':l'2,:7~- quantum laws by means of the transformation Indeed, this exchange relation expresses strikingly theory of matrices.
Below we shall return to the relation of wave stationary state, as time averages of the quantity to be mechanics to the general formulation of the quantum represented, the general transformation theory of laws by means of the transformation theory of matrices. Beryllium shows some queer effects still to be made definite.
Besides a survey of the scientific background for the atomic energy project, which is now public knowledge, this memorandum, dated July 3, 1944, contained the following passages regarding the political consequences which the complishment of the project might imply: It surpasses the of anyone survey the consequences of the project in years to come, where in the long run the enormous energy sources which will be available may be expected to revolutionize in- dustry and transport' The fact of immediate prepon- derance is, however, that a weapon of an unparalleled Power is being created which will completely change all future conditions of warfare.
Besides on the problem of the polarisations of the different components into which the hydrogen lines are split up in the presence of the electric field, the general considerations in Part I allow also to throw light on the question of the relative intensities of these components, by considering the harmonic vibrations into which the motion of the electron in the stationary states can be resolved.
Besides referring to the possibility that the separate electrons in the principal groups do not move in equivalent orbits, Smekal suggests the introduction of three quantum numbers for the description of the various groups, but does not further indicate to what extent these quantum numbers shall be regarded as characterizing a complexity in the structure of the groups in the normal state itself or on the contrary characterizing the incompleted groups which appear when an electron is removed.
Besides the characteristic features of atomic stability, which gave the first impetus to the development of quantum mechanics, we may here refer to the peculiar regularities exhibited by systems com posed of identical entities, such as photons or elec trons, and determining for radiative equilibrium or essential properties of material substances. Besides the complementary features conspicuous in psychology and already touched upon, examples of such relationships can also be traced in biology, especially as regards the comparison between mechanistic and vitalistic viewpoints. Besides the final development of the group of 4quanta orbits we observe in the sixth period in the family of the platinum metals the second stage in the development of the group of 5quanta orbits.
Besides the principal quantum integer n, the stationary states are further characterized by a subordinate quantum integer s, which can be negative as well as positive and has a meaning quite different from that of the quantum number k occurring in the relativity theory of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines, which fixed the form of the electron orbit in the undisturbed atom. Besides the series spectrum and the connected continuous spectrum just considered, there exists, as well known, another hydrogen spectrum, the so called many-line spectrum, which on account of its complex structure and its resemblance with the band spectra, emitted by other elements and combinations of elements, is generally ascribed to the hydrogen molecule and not to the atom.
Besides the transfer of momentum, discussed above, between the object and the bodies defining the space frame, we shall therefore, in such arrangements, have to consider an eventual exchange of energy between the object and these clock-like mechanisms. Besides the transfer of momentum, on the very conditions which define the possible discussed above, between the object and the types of predictions regarding the future behavior bodies defining the space frame, we shall there- of the system. Besides the two strong outer components polarized parallel to the field, Starks experiments have revealed a large number of inner weaker components polarized in the same way, and also a number of components polarized perpendicular to the field.
Besides these results the correspondence principle suggests that the radiation emitted by the perturbed atom must exhibit circular polarization. Besides this condition, which to a very close approximation determines the major axis in the rotating and almost elliptical orbit, a second condition will be imposed upon the stationary states of a central orbit, namely that the angular momentum of the electron about the centre shall be equal to a whole multiple of Plancks constant divided by 2. Blackett a few years later confirmed the assumption by a remarkable observation and photograph of the tracks in a cloud chamber.
Bohr on the Constltutlon formation oE the system the electrons at any moment are situated at equal angular intervals on the circumference of a circle with the nucleus in the centre, from analogy with the considerations on p. 5 we arc here led to assmne the existence of a series of stationary configurations in which the kinetic energy per electron is equal to Th2, where 7 is an entire nmnber, h Planck's constant, and to the frequency of revolution. Bohr on tile C o n s t i t , t i o n have been developed and applied on a number of different phenomena, especially by Stark, Nernst, and Sommerfeld.
Born and Lande, in connection with their investigations of the structure and properties of crystals, have pointed out that the assumption of spatial configurations appears necessary for an explanation of these properties. Both Rutherford and his wife received us with a cordiality which laid the foundation of the intimate friendship that through the many years connected the families.
Both in relativity and in quantum theory we are concerned with new aspects of scientific analysis and synthesis and, in this connection, it is interesting to note that, even in the great epoch of critical philosophy in the former century, there was only question to what extent a priori arguments could be given for the adequacy of space-time co-ordination and causal connection of experience, but never question of rational generalisations or inherent limitations of such categories of human thinking. Both q1 - q2 and p1 + p2 can, therefore, be accurately fixed in a state of the complex system and, consequently, we can predict the values of either q1 or p1 if either q2 or p2 respectively, are determined by direct measurements.
Box 33, Ibadan, Nigeria Of the four articles contained in this volume the first two appeared originally in English in Nature in 1925 and 1927, While the third appeared in German in Die First printed 1934. Briefly afterwards Epstein1 ) and Schwarzschild,2 ) independent of each other, by adapting Sommerfelds ideas to the treatment of a more extended class of non-periodic systems obtained a detailed explanation of the characteristic effect of an electric field on the hydrogen spectrum discovered by Stark. But I must refrain from these reminiscences and 'get on with it' as Rutherford would say.
But Vegards considerations do not offer points of departure for a further consideration of the evolution and stability of the groups, and consequently no basis for a detailed interpretation of the properties of the elements. But a simple explanation can be also given of the other general law, namely, the occurrence of Rydbergs constant in all spectral formulae. But above all of Ehrenfest, the fertility of which appears strik- there can be no question of an immediate con- ingly in the promising investigations of Hund nexion with our ordinary conceptions because the on the problem of formation of molecules.
But according to the quantum theory the various spectral lines are emitted by entirely distinct processes, consisting of transitions from one stationary state to various adjacent states, so that the radiation corresponding to the th harmonic will be emitted by a transition for which n0 n00 = . But at certain moments during the revolution it will penetrate not only into the region of the 2quanta orbits, but like the 21 orbits it will penetrate to distances from the nucleus which are smaller than the radii of the 1quantum orbits of the two electrons first bound.
But at the same time the recognition of the fact that we must descend to the domain of atomic phenomena if we wish to bridge the gulf between the living and the inanimate, should bring before our eyes in a forceful way the practical and conceptual difficulties connected with this problem. But even at this stage diaphragms,controlled by mechanisms serving there is essentially the question of an influence as clocks. But even at this stage there is essentially the question of an influence on the very conditions which define the possible types of predictions regarding the future behavior of the system. But even at this stage there is essentially the question of an influence on the very conditions which define the possible types of predictions regarding the future behaviour of the system.
But from (37) and (38) it will be seen that (39) claims the fulfilment of the relation K= 2 2 N 2 e4 M m 2 2 N 2 e4 m = . But in addition this spectrum gives us information about a series of states corresponding to k = 1 in which the energy differs essentially from the corresponding stationary states of the hydrogen atom. But in that case, according to 12 in vacuo and the optical properties of material media are fintum ostulate an observation ' ' sib WW theorv superposition and, above all, the concepts of space and time lose their principle. But in that case, according to the quantum postulate, any observation will be impossible, 1.
But it will be seen that this condition is just fulfilled in consequence of the above hypothesis of equal a-priori probability of the different stationary states, because the element of phase-surface limited by two successive curves corresponding to (10) is equal to Z Z Z p dq W = dp dq = p dq (12) n1 n = In In1 = h, so that on ordinary statistical mechanics the probabilities for the point to lie within any two such elements is the same. But quite apart from this it will be seen that the arrangement of the electronic groups in the atom, to which we have been lead by tracing the way in which each single electron has been bound, is essentially different from the arrangement of the groups in Langmuirs theory.
But since the period of the proper of conservation of energy with the assumption of vibrations of the atom in the field is connected the stability of stationary states (cf. But since the period of the proper vibrations for the first moment seem to contradict the very idea of of the atom in the field is connected with the total energy stationary states. But the answer to my question is very relevant to the whole system of education and the development of that leadership of which we are so much in need and he was so outstanding an example. But the definite step which gave the impetus to further work was made by Sommerfeld (1915) in his explanation of the fine structure shown by the hydrogen lines when the spectrum is observed with a spectroscope of high resolving power.
But the formula (4) for shows that the frequency of revolution depends upon W , i.e. But the order of magnitude of the mean dif- with the waves can be represented by just the so-called ference between these values for two elementary waves group-velocity. But the twentieth century is nearmay we not hope for better things before its end? But this is nothing more than might have been expected. But this will be seen to imply that the total number of waves in question will just be of the same order as the ratio between the main forces acting on the particles of the system and the reaction from the radiation in ordinary electrodynamics. But when we attempt to penetrate more deeply, difficulties arise.
But where in the world is the institute of pure research in any department of science with an income of $100,000,000 per year? But, as stressed especially by the famous Greek tragedians, equally clear that compassion it is can formulated idea of bring everyone in conflict with any concisely justice. But, considering a col- lision between a free and a bound electron, it would follow that the bound electron by the collision could not acquire a less amount of energy than the difference in energy corre- sponding to successive stationary states, and consequently that the free electron which collides with it could not lose a less amount.
By Ca1p1]= =ih/2n, means of an interesting example, to which we (4192]==== shall return below, they next proceed to show by two pairs of new conjugate variables (Q:P1), (Q:P3) related to the first variables by a simple orthogonal trans- that in quantum mechanics, just as in classical formation, corresponding to a rotation of angle 6 in the mechanics, it is possible under suitable conditions planes (g192), (p152) to predict the value of any given variable (1 cos 80); 8in 6 #1=P1 c080P, sin 0 pertaining to the description of a mechanical 92=0, sin 04Qs cos 0 2=P, 8in 6+ Py cos .
By a procedure analogous to that applied by Burgers in his proof of the mechanical invariance of the relations (22) for slow changes of the external conditions, mentioned in Part I on page 36, it may further be proved that also in the presence of a magnetic field these relations are invariant, when regard is taken to the effect of the induced electric forces which, according to the ordinary theory of electrodynamics, will accompany a variation of the magnetic field. By a theoretical explanation of natural phenomena we understand in general a classification of the observations of a certain domain with the help of analogies pertaining to other domains of observation, where one presumably has to do with simpler phenomena.
By allowing an essentially uncontrollable coexistence of which might at first sight appear momentum to pass from the first particle into irreconcilable with the basic principles of science. By allowing an essentially uncontrollable momentum to pass from the first particle into the mentioned support, however, we have by this procedure cut ourselves off from any future possibility of applying the law of conservation of momentum to the system consisting of the diaphragm and the two particles and therefore have lost our only basis for an unambiguous application of the idea of momentum in predictions regarding the behavior of the second particle.
By an elegant exposition of the consequences of the quantum-mechanical formalism as regards the representation of a state of a system, consisting of two parts which have been in interaction for a limited time interval, it is next shown that different quantities, the fixation of which cannot be combined in the representation of one of the partial systems, can nevertheless be predicted by measurements pertaining to the other partial system. By an infinite small change of the force components in the directions of the axes, in such a way that the motions in these directions remain independent of each other but possess slightly different periods, it will further be possible to transform the elliptical orbit mechanically into one corresponding to any given ratio between the axes.
By another experimental arrangement, where the first diaphragm is not rigidly connected with the other parts of the apparatus, it would at least in principle be possible to measure its momentum with any desired accuracy before and after the passage of the particle, and thus to predict the momentum of the latter after it has passed through the slit. By applying greater dispersion, the number of components observed has been greatly increased, and the numbers as well as the intensities of the components are found to vary in a complex manner from line to line.
By applying the conditions (22) to this motion Epstein and Schwarzschild have, as mentioned in the introduction, independent of each other, obtained an explanation of the effect of an external electric field on the lines of the hydrogen spectrum, which was found to be in convincing agreement with Starks measurements. By comparing this expression with the relation c given above it is seen thatsince = , where c is the ve locity of lighteach of the spectral lines may be regarded as being emitted by the transition of a system between two stationary states in which the energy apart from an additive arbitrary constant is given by chFr (n1 ) and chFs (n2 ) respectively.
By considering transitions corresponding to large values of n0 and n00 we may therefore hope to establish a certain connection with the ordinary theory. By exploring the symmetry properties of the wave function in configuration space, considerations independently taken up by Dirac and subsequently pursued by Fermi, Heisenberg suc- ceeded in showing that the stationary states of the helium atom fall into two classes, corresponding to two non-combining sets of spectral terms and represented by symmetrical and antisymmetrical spatial wave functions associated with opposite and parallel electron spins, respectively.
By fixing the stationary states of the perturbed system by means of the two conditions1 ) I1 = n1 h, I2 = n2 h, (61) 1 ) Quite apart from the problem of perturbed periodic systems, the second of these conditions would also follow directly from certain interesting considerations of Epstein (Ber. By help of (14) and (15) we get This gives or Introducing this in (14), (15), and (16) we get and It should be remembered that these deductions hold only for large values of.
By help of this theorem we get as in the previous cases of a single electron or of a ring rotating round a n u c l e u s ~ that the total amount of energy emitted, by the formation of the systems from a configuration in which the distances apart of the particles are infinitely great and in which the particles have no velocities relative to each other, is equal to the kinetic energy of the electrons in ~he final configuration. By imagining another nucleus of infinite small charge placed at the other focus, the orbit may further be transformed into another which satisfies (24) for the same value of n, but which may have any given value for the eccentricity. By introducing the expression, which has been found for R, we get for the nth state Wn = 12 nhn .
By introducing the most recent values for e, m and h the expression on the righthand side of the equation becomes equal to 1.09105 . By introducing the so called angle-variables well known from the astronomical theory of perturbations, Schwarzschild has given the theory a very elegant form in which the analogy with systems of one degree of freedom presents itself in a somewhat different manner. By its very nature this conception moving particles through an atom. By its very represent the *motion * of a particle. By making certain definite assumptions concerning the forces acting on the electrons it is possible to calculate their motion and consequently the energy radiated from the body per second in the form of electromagnetic oscillations of various wave lengths.
By making the assumption that the temperature equilibrium will not be disturbed by the mutual radiation of the various bodies Kirchhoff (1860) showed that the amount of energy per unit volume as well as the distribution of this energy among the various wave lengths is independent of the form and size of the space and of the nature of the surrounding bodies and depends only on the temperature. By means of (18) the qs are given as functions of the time t and the 2s constants 1 , .
By means of (51) it is possible, with neglect of small quantities proportional to the square of the perturbing forces, directly to determine the value of the additional energy in the stationary states of a periodic system of two degrees of freedom subject to an arbitrarily given small external field of force, and consequently with this approximation, by use of the fundamental relation (1), to determine the effect of this field on the frequencies of the spectrum of the undisturbed periodic system. By means of equations (4) we get therefore Z X Z s E E I = pk + qk dt = E dt.
By means of the relation 2 = mr2 , where is the angular distance of the radius vector from a fixed line in the plane of the orbit, we get then Z Z mC 2 2mC 1 C dt = d = , = 2 0 r 2 0 2 N 2 e4 which expression is seen to coincide with (70), if C = 2 . By means of the well known equations for a Keplerian motion r cos = (cos u + ), du dt = (1 + cos u) , 2 where 2 is the major axis, the eccentricity and u the so called eccentric anomaly, this gives Z 2 1 (cos u + )(1 + cos u) du = eF cos 2 0 (74) 3 = eF cos .
By means of the well known theorem of Jacobi about the change of variables in the canonical equations of Hamilton, the connection between the notion of angle-variables and the quantities I, discussed by Epstein in the latter paper, may be briefly exposed in the following elegant manner which has been kindly pointed out to me by Mr. H. A. Kramers. By means of these assumptions it was possible to account for the orders of magnitude of the dimensions of the atoms as well as the firmness with which the electrons were bound by the atom, a measure of which may be obtained by means of experiments on the excitation of the various types of spectra.
By partial integration of the first term, we get from this equation, with the approximation under consideration, Z e 1 e = + B dt 0 c (85) Z Z 1 1 = (E + M ) dt = dt. By partial integration of the second term in the bracket under the integral we get next Z X s s X I = (qk pk pk qk ) dt + pk (qk t + qk ) , 0 1 1 0 where the last term is seen to be zero, because the term in the bracket as well as pk will be the same in both limits, since the varied motion as well as the original motion is assumed to be periodic. By passing a steady current of air over the thoria the activity was much reduced. By passing a very heavy current through a mixture of hydrogen and helium Fowler observed not only these lines but also a new series of lines.
By reading or using any part of this Project GutenbergTM electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property (trademark/copyright) agreement. By repeating a cyclic process of this kind we may pass from any stationary state of the system in question which satisfies (24) for a value of n > 1 to any other such state without leaving at any moment the region of stationary states. By requiring that the frequencies ascribed character of the exchange relation (3).
By requiring that the frequencies spectroscopic results was based on a s m i applica- ascribed to the elements must always obey the com- tion of classical electrodynamics, in which the individual bination principle for spectral lines, Heisenberg could transition processes were each associated with a har- introduce simple rules of calculation for the symbols monic in the motion of the atomic particles to be ex- which permit a direct quantum-theoretical transcription pected according to ordinary mechanics. By securing its interfering essentially with their use as time indi- proper correspondence with the classical theory, cators.
By securing its proper correspondence with the classical theory, these theorems exclude in particular any imaginable inconsistency in the quantum-mechanical description, connected with a change of the place where the discrimination is made between object and measuring agencies. By spectroscopic observation in a direction perpendicular to the field the lines are resolved, in the simplest case, into symmetrical triplets of which the central components have the same position as the original line and are polarized with electric vector parallel to the field, while the outer components are polarized with electric vector perpendicular to the magnetic field.
By spectroscopic observation in a direction perpendicular to the field, the components are linearly polarized, some parallel and some perpendicular to the field. By spectroscopic observation in a direction perpendicular to the held, each of the lines of the hydrogen spectrum was broken up into five homogeneous components situated very nearly symmetrically with regard to the original line. By studying the statistical equilibrium of a number of such systems in a field of radiation Planck was led to the conclusion that the emission and absorption of radiation take place in such a manner, that, so far as a statistical equilibrium is concerned only certain distinctive states of the oscillator are to be taken into consideration.
By taking large enough we can make this approximation as close as we like. By the great improvement of accuracy in measurements of a-ray spectra by Rutherford, Wynn- Williams, and others, much new light was thrown on the and their relation to fine structure of these spectra the energy levels of the residual nucleus resulting from the a-decay. By the guidance which analysis in terms of cause and effect has offered in many fields of human knowledge, the principle of causality has even come to stand as the ideal for scientific explanation.
By the introduction of this quantity the question of the stable con- figuration of the electrons in the atoms is esseni tally changed, as this constant is of such dimensions and magnitud,, that it, together with the mass and charge of the particles, can determine a length of the order of magnitude required. By the way, I was much interested in your speculations in regard to Fowler's spectrum. By this time the tenure of Rutherford's 1851 Exhibition Scholarship was coming to an end and although he had obtained another scholarship in the meantime, the Coutts Trotter, it would provide only sufficient for bare maintenance until such time as he might possibly hope for a college fellowship.
By this transition, which results in the emission of an infrared line which could not be observed with the experimental arrangement, the atom is taken to the second state of the first row, and from this state only one transition is possible, which again gives an infrared line. By use of (29) we get now for the difference in the total energy of two slightly different states of the perturbed system E = s X 1 k Ik = s s X 1 k Ik + s1 X (k k s ) Ik . By using Moseleys measurements for and and extrapolating for the values of by the help of Moseleys. By varying W we may obtain all possible values for and 2a.
C 23 24 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE as evidence for the permanence of some elementary structure during the development, a consideration strikingly reminiscent of the ap- proach in modern genetics. C. That the dynamical equilibrium of the systems in the stationary states is governed by the ordinary laws of mechanics, while these laws do not hold for the transition from one state to another. CAMBRIDGE AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS 1961 PUBLISHED BY THE SYNDICS OF THE CAMBRIDGE UNIVERSITY PRESS Bentley House, 200 Euston Road, London, N.W.
CONCLUSION Before bringing this address to a close I wish once more to emphasize the complete analogy in the application of the quantum theory to the stability of the atom, used in explaining two so different phenomena as the periodic system and Xray spectra. CORRESPONDENCE PRINCIPLE AND MATRIX additional statistical element will not influence the THEORY. CORRESPONDENCE PRINCIPLE AND qt'fantum-tffeoretical description ofatomic (nucrthEOpic) MATRIX THEORY p'lTenomena by comparing this uncertainty with the un- c'tEtainty, due to imperfect measurements, inherently Hitherto we have only regarded certain general features contained in any observation as considered in the ordi- ofthe quantum problem.
Calculating now the mean value of over a period of the undisturbed motion, we see at once, from considerations of symmetry, that this mean value will depend only on the component of the external electric force in the direction of the major axis of the orbit. Can Quantum-Mechanical Description of Physical Reality be Considered Complete? Cer- tainly, the predominance, in the innermost part of the atom, of the attraction exertedby the nucleus on the individual electrons over their mutual repulsion afforded the basis for an understanding of the striking similarity between Moseley's spectra and those to be expected for a system consisting of a single electron bound to the bare nucleus. Certain simple formal relations apply, however, to all the stationary states.
Certain types of nuclei are unusually stable and abundant in nature, those which contain definite numbers of neutrons or protons e.g. Certainly the issue is of a very subtle character and suited to emphasise how far, in quantum theory, we are beyond the reach of pictorial visualisation. Certainly, every in- crease in knowledge and potentialities has always implied a greater 16 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE but at the present moment, when the fate of all peoples responsibility, isinseparably connected, a collaboration in mutual confidence, based on appreciation of every aspect of the common human position, is more necessary than ever before in the history of mankind.
Certainly, his favoured use of such picturesque phrases as "ghost waves (Gespensterfelder) guiding the photons" implied no tendency to mysticism, but illuminated rather a profound humour behind his piercing remarks. Certainly, it had not been easy for Rutherford to decide to leave Manchester after the many rich years there, but of course he had to follow the call to succeed the unique series of Cavendish professors. Chadwick showed that the new radiation was probably material with about the same mass as a proton and his deduction that it consisted of neutrons has stood the test of time.
Chadwick's report, beginning with a description of the purposeful search in Cambridge for anomalies in a-ray scattering, ended up by some most pertinent considerations of the part played by the neutron in nuclear structure, as well as of its important role in inducing nuclear transmutations. Characteristic of Rutherford's whole attitude was the warm interest he took in any one of the many young physicists with whom he came into contact for shorter or longer periods. Classification of Xray spectra. Common readiness to assist all peoples in overcoming difficul- ties of such kind is, therefore, most urgently required. Common to Rutherford's answers, which were always very encouraging, was the spontaneity and joy with which he told about the work in his laboratory.
Compare also E. Warburg, Verh. Compare the detailed discussion siderations it has been assumed that the perturbed system in the presence of the first external field is non-degenerate. Compared with the problem of the relative intensities of the components of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines, the present problem is simpler in that respect, that the stationary states may be assumed to be a-priori equally probable. Compared with usual representations of the periodic system, this method, proposed more than twenty years ago by Julius Thomsen, of indicating the periodic variations in the properties of the elements is more suited for comparison with theories of atomic constitution.
Comparing a given perturbed motion of the system with some undisturbed motion of which it may be regarded as a small variation, we get therefore from (28), with neglect of small quantities proportional to the square of the intensity of the external forces, Z E dt = 0 s X k Ik , (47) 1 where the Is are calculated with respect to a set of coordinates in which a separation can be obtained for the perturbed motion, and where E is the difference between the total energy of the undisturbed motion and the energy which the system would possess in its perturbed state, if the external forces vanished suddenly at the moment under consideration, and which in the above calculations was denoted by 1 .
Comparing formula (78) with Starks observations, Epstein pointed out, however, that the polarisation of the different components observed could apparently be accounted for by the rule: that a transition between two stationary states gives rise to a component polarised parallel to the field, if n3 remains unchanged or is changed by an even number of units; while a component, corresponding to a transition in which n2 is changed by an uneven number of units, is polarised perpendicular to the field. Comparing the change in the relative firmness in the binding of the 19th electron in a 41 and 33 orbit for potassium and calcium we see that we must be prepared already for the next element, scandium, to find that the 33 orbit will correspond to a stronger binding of this electron than a 41 orbit.
Complex structure of series lines. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requirements. Concordant evidence from a large number of very different phenomena has led to the more definite assumption that the number of electrons per atom is exactly equal to the atomic number, i.e., the number of the corresponding element in the periodic table. Concordant evidence, obtained in very different ways, indicates that the number of electrons in the neutral atom is equal to the number of the corresponding element in the periodic table. Conditionally periodic systems.
Conditions analogous to (16) have also been established by Planck in his interesting theory of the physical structure of the phase space of systems of several degrees of freedom (Verh. Confronted with the great diversity of cultural THE UNITY OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE IS developments, we may therefore search for those features in all civilizations which have their roots in the common human situation. Consequently (11) forms a complete analogy to Plancks original relation between the energy of a monochromatic vibrator and its frequency. Consequently I will be invariant for any finite transformation of the system which is sufficiently slowly performed, provided the motion at any moment during the process is periodic and the effect of the variation is calculated on ordinary mechanics.
Consequently it is the first member of the P terms and not of the S terms which corresponds to the normal state of the aluminium atom, and we must assume that the 13th electron is bound in a 32 orbit. Consequently the motion represented by formula (22) contains no components for which is numerically greater than 1, in contrast to the Stark effect, where components corresponding to all values of are present. Consequently the vertical lines indicated Fig. Consequently we may regard our pre- liminary considerations on p. 5 only as a simple form of representing the re~,utts of the theory.
Consequently we must assume that only such transitions are possible for which only one of the ns varies at the same time, and that the radiation corresponding to such a transition will be linearly polarised in the direction of the displacement of the corresponding coordinate. Consequently we shall expect that, during the establishment of the field, the system will in general adjust itself in some unmechanical way until a stationary state is reached in which the frequency (or frequencies) of the above mentioned slow variation of the orbit has a relation to the additional energy of the system due to the presence of the external field, which is of the same kind as the relation, expressed by (8) and (10), between the energy and frequency of a periodic system of one degree of freedom.
Consequently, a use of the apparatus as a means of accurately measuring the energy of the photon will prevent us from controlling the moment of its escape. Consequently, evidence obtained under different experimental conditions cannot be comprehended within a single picture, but must be regarded as complementary in the sense that only the totality of the phenomena exhausts the possible information about the objects. Consequently, the description of this state involves a certain latitude Dp in the momentum component of the particle parallel to the diaphragm and, in the case of a diaphragm with a shutter, an additional latitude DE of the kinetic energy.
Consequently, the expression (13) may be interpreted as indicating the presence of a number of series of stationary states of the atom in which the configuration of the inner electrons is very nearly the same for all states in one series, while the configuration of the outer electron changes from state to state in the series approximately in the same way as in the hydrogen atom. Consequently, we are at this stage still free to choose whether we want to draw conclusions either about the energy of the photon or about the moment when it left the box. Consider a particle moving in a closed orbit in a stationary field.
Consider a system for which every orbit, if undisturbed, is periodic independent of the initial conditions, and let us assume that the equations of motion for some set of coordinates q1 , q2 , . Consider an electron of mass m and charge e, rotating round a positive nucleus of infinite mass and of charge N e, and subject to a homogeneous electric field of intensity F , and let us for the present neglect the small effect of the relativity modifications. Consider an electron originally moving in a circular orbit round the nucleus. Consider an electron rotating round a positive nucleus of infinite mass. Consider for the sake of generality a conservative mechanical system of s degrees of freedom, the motion of which is governed by Hamiltons equations: E dpk = , dt qk dqk E = , dt pk (k = 1, .
Consider now a periodic system in some stationary state satisfying (24), and let us assume that an external field is slowly established at a continuous rate and that the motion at any moment during this process allows of a separation of variables in a certain set of coordinates. Consider now a state of the system satisfying (21), and let us assume that by the above means the orbit is originally so adjusted that in plane polar coordinates it will correspond to n1 = m and n2 = n m in (16). Consider now a transition between the state corresponding to n = n0 and the state corresponding to n = n00 , and let us assume that n0 and n00 are large numbers and that n0 n00 is small compared with n0 and n00 .
Consider now a transition between two stationary states determined by (22) by putting nk = n0k and nk = n00k respectively, and let us assume that n01 , . Consider now thePmultis tude of states of the perturbed system for which 1 k Ik is equal to nh, where n is a given entire positive number. Consider some motion of a conditionally periodic system which allows of separation of variables in a certain set of coordinates q1 , . Consider the function S(q1 , . Consider thus a system for which every orbit is periodic, and let us assume that in the presence of a given small external field a separation of variables is possible in a certain set of coordinates q1 , .
Consider, for the sake of illustration, the change in the hydrogen spectrum due to the presence of homogeneous electric and magnetic fields which was described by equation (19). Considerations of conservation of angular momentum can, in connection with the series spectra, therefore only contribute to an understanding of the limitation of the possibilities of combination observed in the peculiar laws applying to the number of components in the complex structure of the lines.
Considerations relating to the stability of atoms and molecules against external influences and concerning the possibility of the formation of an atom by successive addition of the individual electrons compel us to claim, first that the configurations of electrons are not only in mechanical equilibrium but also possess a certain stability in the sense required by ordinary mechanics, and secondly that the configurations employed must be of such a nature that transitions to these from other stationary states of the atom are possible. Considering an external electric field we shall not expect an effect of the second kind.
Considering now the displacement of the particle in rectangular coordinates x, y and z, and taking as above the axis of symmetry as z-axis, we get from (32) and (33) after a simple contraction of terms x = cos X = D1 ,2 cos 2 (1 1 + 2 2 + 3 )t + d1 ,2 and y = sin X = D1 ,2 sin 2 (1 1 + 2 2 + 3 )t+d1 ,2 , (34) where the Ds and ds are new constants, and the summation is again to be extended over all positive and negative values of 1 and 2 . Considering our deficient knowledge of the laws which determine the processes inside atoms it is scarcely possible to give an explanation of the kind attempted in these theories.
Considering systems in which more electrons are bound by a positive nucleus, a configuration of the electrons which presents itself as a permanent state is one in which the electrons are arranged in a ring round the nucleus. Considering systems in which the frequency is a function of the energy, this assumption~ however, may be regarded as improbable ; for as soon as one quantum is sent out the frequency is altered. Considering that the ratio of kinetic energy to frequency for a particle rotating in a circular orbit is equal to ~r times the angular momentum round the centre of the orbit, we are therefore led to the following simple generalization of' the hypotheses mentioned on pp.
Considering two slightly different states of the perturbed system for which the corresponding states of the undisturbed system (i. e. the states which would appear if the external forces vanished at a slow and uniform rate) possess the same energy and consequently the same value for the quantity I defined by (5), we get therefore by a calculation completely analogous to that leading to relation (8) in Part I, which was deduced directly from the Hamiltonian equations, for the difference in the values of the function for these two states = v I, (49) 1 where v = is the frequency of the secular perturbations, s and where the quantity I is defined by Z s Z D2 I= 2 dt = 2 D2 , (50) Dt 0 where the latter integral is taken over a complete oscillation of 2 .
Considering two states of the perturbed atom for which the values of n1 are the same and the values of n2 are numerically equal but have opposite signs, we get therefore, if the atom is exposed only to a magnetic field of axial symmetry, that the values of the additional energy will be equal with exception of the sign; while, if the atom is exposed to a magnetic as well as to an electric field, the additional energy in two such states will in general differ also as regards its numerical value. Considering, however, the want of sharpness of the lines and the discrepancies between the distance of components found by different observers, it seems probable that the lines are not true doublets, but are due to an effect of the electric field in the discharge.
Considering, however, the widely different assumptions underlying the relation (11) and Plancks relation, it may seem more adequate not to seek the basis of our considerations in the formal analogy in question, but directly in the principal condition (1) and in the laws of the line-spectra. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below. Contemporaneously he noticed that all substances remaining in contact with the emanation themselves became active. Continued investigations on electron impacts, in which a large number of physicists have shared, have also produced a detailed confirmation of the theory concerning the excitation of series spectra.
Continued spectroscopical investigations were in the following years to reveal many spectra of atoms, from which not only one but even several electrons were removed. Contrary to the hopes for future fruitful cooperation, expressed from all sides and embodied in the Charter of the United Nations, the lack of mutual confidence soon became evident. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by U.S. federal laws and your states laws. Conversely, Lucretius, summing up the argu- ments for atomic theory, interpreted the growth of a plant from its seed 1 Unfinished manuscript (see Preface). Conversely, already ancient Indian thinkers understood the logical difficulties in giving exhaustive expression for such whole- ness.
Conversely, any attempt of locating the collision between the photon and the electron more accurately would, on account of the unavoidable interaction with the fixed scales and clocks defining the space-time reference frame, exclude all closer account as regards the balance of momentum and energy. Conversely, any investigation of such regularities, the very account of which implies the conservation laws of energy and momentum, will in principle impose a renunciation as regards the space-time coordination of the individual electrons in the atom. Conversely, any strict application of the laws of conservation of momentum and energy to atomic processes implies, in principle, a renunciation of detailed space- time coordination of the particles.
Conversely, if we choose to measure the momentum of one of the particles, we lose through the uncontrollable displacement inevitable in such a measurement any possibility of deducing from the behavior of this particle the position of the diaphragm relative to the rest of the apparatus, and have thus no basis whatever for predictions regarding the location of the other particle.
Conversely, if we choose to measure words as before and *after implying time- the momentum of one of the particles, we lose relationships; but in each case allowance must through the uncontrollable displacement inevi- be made for a certain inaccuracy, which is of table in such a measurement any possibility of no importance, however, so long as the time deducing from the behavior of this particle the intervals concerned are sufficiently large com- position of the diaphragm relative to the rest of pared with the proper periods entering in the the apparatus, and have thus no basis whatever closer analysis of the phenomenon under investi- for predictions regarding the location of the gation.
Conversely, irradiation of the atom with electromagnetic waves of this frequency can lead to an absorption process, whereby the atom is transformed back from the latter stationary state to the former. Conversely, no arrangement suitable for the control of momentum and energy balance will admit precise description of the phenomena as a chain of events in space and time. Conversely, only symmetrical wave functions come into consideration for photons, to which according to Dirac's theory of radiation the spin 1 has to be ascribed, and for entities like a-particles without spin.
Conversely, the use of any arrangement suited to study momentum and energy balance decisive for the account of essential properties of atomic systems implies a renunciation of detailed space-time coordination of their constituent particles. Conversely, those quantum laws whose formulation rests essentially on the application of the concept of energy or momentum can appear only under circumstances of investigation from which a detailed account of the space-time behavior of the object is excluded. Copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change. Corre- sponding considerations wilt hold for the emission of radiation. Correspondence principle and conservation of angular momentum.
Corresponding results apply to calcium, in the neutral atom of which there will be two valency electrons in equivalent 41 orbits. Corresponding to each of the energy values for the stationary states of the hydrogen atom given by the simple formula (5) we obtain n values differing only very little from one another, since the second term within the bracket is very small. Corresponding to the nth stationary state in formula (4) Rhc for , let us by way of experiment put W = 2 .
Corresponding to this we have in the case under consideration that, independent of the nature of the second external field, the resultant secular perturbations may in general be expressed as a sum of harmonic vibrations of small frequencies of the type (54), if we look apart from small terms of the same order as the product of the secular perturbations produced by the first external field with the square of the ratio between the intensities of the forces due to the first and those due to the second external field. Coster has also investigated in which elements these particular levels appear for the last time, when passing from higher to lower atomic number.
Counting weak scintillations is hard on old eyes, but still with the aid of Kay I have got through a good deal of work at odd times the past four years. Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation (and you!) D. That the various possible stationary states of a system consisting of an electron rotating round a positive nucleus are determined by the relation where is the mean value of the kinetic energy of the system, the frequency of rotation, and a whole number. DE > h, in accordance with the indeterminacy principle. DEVELOPMENT OF THE QUANTUM THEORY OF SPECTRA. DP approx= h, (3) where Dq and Dp are suitably defined latitudes in the determination of these variables.
Dec. 1912. of Atoms and Molecules. Delbriick, who time was working with us in Copenhagen as a physicist, at that took great interest in such considerations which, as he has been kind enough to say, stimulated his interest in biology and presented him with a challenge in his successful researches in genetics. Denoting a time interval of this order by and 1 ) In analogy with the considerations on page 97 it may be expected, however, that these limits for the definition of the energy in the stationary states will hold only for the great majority among a large number of atomic systems.
Denoting by A the on account of the impossibility of attributing a wave-length of the radiation used, and by e the definite instant to the recoil, we know the mean so-called numerical aperture, that is, the sine of velocity in the direction of observation during the half the angle of convergence, the resolving power scattering process only with an accuracy 2k/mA. Denoting the angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus by M, we have immediately for a circular orbit ~r}[=~, where o~ is the frequency of revolution and T the kinetic energy of the electron; for a circular orbit we further have T = W (see p. 3) and from (2), p. 5, we consequently get M = r Mo, where M o = / ~ = 1"04:x 10 -27.
Denoting the charge of the electron and of the nucleus by-e and E respectively and |he mass of the electron by m, we thus get to= ~/~- W~- eE 7, W . Denoting the frequency of revolution by , and the major axis of the ellipse by 2a we find that 2 = 2W 3 , 2 e4 m 2a = e2 , W (4) where e is the charge of the electron and m its mass, while W is the work which must be added to the system in order to remove the electron to an infinite distance from the nucleus. Denoting the frequency of revolution in the periodic orbit by and the frequency of the superposed rotation by vR , we have, with neglect of small quantities of higher order than the square of the ratio between the velocity of the electron and the velocity of light, 2 2 Ne 1 . Denoting the rates of variation of w, w1 , .
Denoting, as in 2, by a small constant of the same order as the ratio between the forces on the electron due to the weaker of the external fields and those due to the stronger of these fields, and by a small constant of the same order as the ratio between the latter forces and the attraction from the nucleus, we have, as shown on page 119, that, with neglect of small quantities of the same order of magnitude as 2 ,1 ) the change in the additional energy of the atom due to the presence of the weaker field is, in general, directly obtained by taking the mean value of the function , corresponding to the weaker field, over the cycle of shapes and positions which the orbit of the electron passes through in the stationary states of the atom in the presence of the stronger field only.
Despite all attempts, the negotiations within the United Nations have so far failed in securing agree- ment regarding measures to eliminate the dangers of atomic armament. Despite these efforts, Project GutenbergTM electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain Defects, such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment.
Detailed proposals for the establishment of an effective control would have to be worked out with the assistance of scientists and technologists appointed by the govern- ments concerned, and a standing expert committee, re- lated to an international security organization, might be charged with keeping account of new scientific and technical developments and with recommending appro- priate adjustments of the control measures.
Developing these ideas Kossel has succeeded not only in giving interesting explanations of a large number of chemical facts, but has also been led to certain general conclusions about the grouping of the electrons in elements belonging to the first periods of the periodic system, which in certain respects are in conformity with the results to be discussed in the following paragraphs. Development of Atomic Theory (I927) I. QUANTUM POSTULATE AND CAUSALITX Although it is with great pleasure that I follow the The quantum theory is characterized by the acknow: kind invitation of the presidency of the congress to Imminental limitation in the classiggl give an account of the present state of the quantum physical ideas When applied to atomic phenomena.
Different points of view immediately suggest themselves. Dirac even succeeded in applying such considerations to the problems of electromagnetic fields and, by using as conjugate variables the amplitudes and phases of the consti- tuent harmonic components, developed a quantum theory of radiation, in which Einstein's original photon concept was consistently incor- porated. Direct evidence that a complete group of 3quanta orbits is present in the cuprous ion is given by the spectrum of copper which, in contrast to the extremely complicated spectra of the preceding elements resulting from the unsymmetrical character of the inner system, possesses a simple structure very much like that of the sodium spectrum.
Disregard of this point has sometimes led to confusion, and in particular the use of phrases like "disturbance of phenomena by observation" or "creation of physical attributes of objects by measurements" is hardly compatible with common language and practical definition. Disregarding for a moment this latter difficulty, we shall first consider the dimensions and frequency of the systems in relation to Planck's theory of radiation. Divergencies in outlook between the victorious nations inevitably aggravated controversial matters al-ising in connection with peace setkltlarnents. Dm, (6) where g is the gravity constant. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing, copying or distributing any Project GutenbergTM works unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.
Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project GutenbergTM License. Do not put me down on that account as a follower of Lysenko. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project GutenbergTM License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with Project GutenbergTM. Donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. Downloaded from https://www.holybooks.com 128 of which, taken over a revolution of the electron, was equal to N 2 e4 .
Dp approx= (h/Dt), being just of the same order of magnitude as the latitude DE given by (4) and, thus, allowing for momentum and energy balance. Dr Kramers and I have in the last few years been engaged in such an investigation, and in an address on atomic problems at the meeting of the Dutch Congress of Natural and Medical Sciences held in Leiden, April 1919, I gave a short communication of our results. Dr Kramers and I have made a closer investigation of the interaction between the two orbits in the different stationary states. Dt (4 ) From this we get, differentiating (1 ) and (2 ) with respect to the time, and remembering that and remain constant during the perturbations, DPy D DPx D 2 + = K Px + Py Dt Dt Dt Dt (5 ) = eF K 2 (Px Py ), where K= 3 .
Dt approx= h, (4) again in accordance with the relation (3) for the two conjugated variables E and t. From the point of view of the laws of conservation, the origin of such latitudes entering into the description of the state of the particle after passing through the hole may be traced to the possibilities of momentum and energy exchange with the diaphragm or the shutter. Due to its larger mass, however, a the quantum theory we meet this difficulty at once magnetic moment much smaller than that of the in the question of the inevitability of the feature electron must be associated with the proton.
Due to its phasizes, seem to depend essentially on the circumstance larger mass, however, a magnetic moment much smaller that in this description electricity always appears in well- than that of the electron must be associated with the defined units, the conjugated fifth dimension being as a proton.
Due to the above result that the additional energy E in the stationary states of the perturbed system, with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 , may be taken equal to the value in these states of the function entering in the equations (46) which determine the secular perturbations of the orbits, we are now able to draw further conclusions from the fact, mentioned above, that these equations are of the same type as the Hamiltonian equations of motion for a mechanical system of s 1 degrees of freedom. Due to the degenerate character of the system formed by the atom the smallest value for the total energy; see Part IV) is not altered in the presence of a magnetic field, as far as small quantities proportional to the intensity of the magnetic force are concerned.
Due to the fact, however, scattered radiation. Due to the fact, however, that the by the quantum postulate. Due to the large mass of the nuclei compared with that of the electrons, it is, however, possible to account with high approximation for the atomic configura- tion in the molecules, corresponding to the well-known structural formulae which have proved so indispensable in the ordering of chemical evidence. Due to the lucidity and apparently incontestable character of the argument, the paper of Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen created a stir among physicists and has played a large role in general philosophical discussion.
Due to the necessary arbitrariness involved in the choice of these extensions, however, we cannot in this way obtain a rational determination of the a-priori probability of states corresponding to small values of n1 and n2 . Due to the presence of the second term within the bracket, we thus see that, for any value of n, formula (68) 1 ) A. Sommerfeld, Ann.
Due to the principles of conservation of energy and of angular momentum holding in ordinary electrodynamics, we should therefore expect that the ratio between the energy and the angular momentum of the emitted radiation would be 2,1 ) but this is seen to be equal to the ratio between the energy h and the angular h momentum lost by the system considered above during 2 a transition for which we have assumed that the radiation is circularly polarised. Due to the singular position of periodic systems in the quantum theory of systems of several degrees of freedom this application, however, involves, as it will appear from the following discussion, an ambiguity which deprives the result of an immediate physical interpretation.
Due to the symmetry, the expression for the total energy in Hamiltons equations will not contain the angular distance q3 but only the angular momentum p3 round the axis. Due to this fact the presence of a group like that of the rare earths in the sixth period may be considered as a direct consequence of the theory and might actually have been predicted on a quantum theory, adapted to the explanation of the properties of the elements within the preceding periods in the way I have shown.
Due to this we meet with a characteristic difficulty when during the transformation of the system we pass one of the cases of degeneration mentioned above, where, for every set of values for the s, the orbit will not cover the s-dimensional extension everywhere dense, but will be confined to an extension of less dimensions. Due wouldss ascribed to the same state of the atom, to the general character of relation (2), however, will, according to the quantum postulate, corre- this idea can be consistently utilised also in the spond to separate transition processes, between quantum theory, if only the uncertainty expressed which the excited atom has a choice.
During a brief visit to Cambridge in October, 1928, Gamow dis- cussed the experimental prospects arising from his theoretical con- siderations with Cockcroft, who by more detailed estimates convinced himself of the possibility of obtaining observable effects by bombard- ment of light nuclei with protons of an energy far smaller than that of a-particles from natural radioactive sources. During my visit Rutherford also spoke about the great decision he had had to make in response to the offer of the Cavendish professorship in Cambridge left vacant by the retirement of J. J. Thomson. During the Congress, all these problems will certainly be much debated and elucidated from expert side.
During the conversation, in which Rutherford spoke with characteristic enthusiasm about the many new prospects in physical science, he kindly assented to my wish to join the group working in his laboratory when, in the early spring of 1912, I should have finished my studies in Cambridge where I had been deeply interested in J. J. Thomson's on the electronic constitu- original ideas tion of atoms. During the conversation: in which Rutherford spoke with characteristic enthusiasm about the many new prospects in physical science, he kindly assented to my wish to join the group working in his laboratory when, in the early spring of 1912, I should have finished" my studies in Cambridge where I had been deeply interested in J. J. Thomson's original ideas on the electronic constitution of atoms.
During the discussions, where the whole subject was reviewed by contributions from many sides and where also the arguments mentioned in the preceding pages were again presented, Einstein expressed, however, a deep concern over the extent to which causal account in space and time was abandoned in quantum mechanics. During the following months the discussion about the origin of the spectral lines ascribed to helium ions took a dramatic turn. During the last month of my stay in Manchester I was mainly occupied with a "theoretical investigation of the stopping power of matter for ()(- and nucleus resulting from the IX-decay. During the last month of my stay in Manchester I was mainly occupied with a theoretical investigation of the stopping power of matter for a- and p-rays.
During the previous decades the subject of spectro- scopy had been under investigation in many European university laboratories, and the longer it was studied the greater the complexities appeared, especially in gases rendered luminous by electric discharge under reduced pressure. During these changes, however, it is found that the centre of the orbit remains in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the electric force and that its motion in this plane is simply periodic. During this variation, the length of the major-axis will approximately remain constant and equal to the diameter of the original circular orbit.
E. In any atomic or molecular system consisting of positive nuclei and electrons in which the nuclei are at rest relative to each other, and the electrons move in circular orbits, the angular momentum of each electron round the centre of its orbit will be equal to in the normal state of the system, i.e . E= 2 n h2 8 2 em (20) To find the effect of an electric field upon the lines of the hydrogen spectrum, we use the frequency condition (4) and obtain for the frequency of the radiation emitted by a transition between two stationary states defined by the numbers n0 , k 0 and n00 , k 00 3h F 2 2 e4 m 1 1 00 2 + 2 (n0 k 0 n00 k 00 ).
END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON THE EFFECT OF ELECTRIC AND MAGNETIC FIELDS ON SPECTRAL LINES Updated editions will replace the previous onethe old editions will be renamed. Each harmonic component in expression (22) for which + is an even number corresponds to a linear oscillation parallel to the direction of the electric field, while each component for which + is odd corresponds to an elliptical oscillation perpendicular to this direction. Each nuclear particle is supposed to move in a sort of planetary orbit. Each of them coincides very nearly with a piece of a Kepler ellipse, and they are connected, as indicated, by a series of inner loops of a complicated character in which the electron approaches the nucleus closely.
Each of these corresponds to the change of only one of the coordinates and may therefore in a certain sense be regarded as independent. Each orbit is designated by a symbol where n is the principal quantum number and k the subordinate quantum number. Early in my stay in Manchester in the spring of 1912 I became con- vinced that the electronic constitution of the Rutherford atom was governed throughout by the quantum of action. Early measurements of this potential had given values corresponding approximately to that which would result from the ringconfiguration already mentioned. Effect of external forces on the hydrogen spectrum.
Einstein compares the emission or absorption of radiation of frequency corresponding to a transition between two stationary states with the emission or absorption to be expected on ordinary electrodynamics for a system consisting of a particle executing harmonic vibrations of this frequency. Einstein does not introduce any detailed assumption as to the values of these constants, no more than to the conditions by which the different stationary states of a given system are determined or to the a-priori probability of these states on which their relative occurrence in a distribution of statistical equilibrium depends.
Einstein himself did not attend this meeting, which took place at a time darkened by the tragic developments in the political world which were to influence his fate so deeply and add so greatly to his burdens in the service of humanity. Einstein was able to show that the experiment confirmed Planck's theory, and through the work of later investigators this agreement has proved quite complete. Einstein's attitude gave rise to ardent discussions within a small circle, in which Ehrenfest, who through the years had been a close friend of us both, took part in a most active and helpful way. Einstein's concern and criticism provided a most valuable incentive for us all to re-examine the various aspects of the situation as regards the description of atomic phenomena.
Einstein's own attitude to such startling conclusions is expressed in a passage at the end of the article, which may be translated as follows: These features of the elementary processes would seem to make the development of a proper quantum treatment of radiation almost unavoidable. Einstein's own views at that time are presented in an article Physics and Reality, published in 1936 in the Journal of the Franklin Institute. Einstein, B. Podolsky and N. Rosen have According to their criterion the authors therefore presented arguments which lead them to answer want to ascribe an element of reality to each ofVthe question at issue in the negative. Electronic valve methods of counting particles were not perfected until 1932.
Elementary considerations of a head-on collision of an a-particle of mass 4 with a hydrogen nucleus of mass I showed that the latter should take on a velocity 1 6 times that of the incident a-particle and have a range or penetrating power 4 times as great. Ellis* investigations of the thermal effects produced by absorption of the emitted electrons especially seemed irreconcilable with detailed energy and momentum balance in the (3-decay process. Email contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the Foundations website and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact Section 4.
Emanations of light and energy swift and penetrating and strong enough to pierce a brick wall or the head of a Professor of Literature appeared to sparkle and coruscate from him all over in sheaves. En- couraged by Rutherford, Makower and I planned experiments to investigate this point, and an intricate quartz apparatus with various electrodes and grids was constructed with the help of the competent German glass blower in the laboratory, who in the earlier days had made the fine oc-ray tubes for Rutherford's investigations on the formation of helium. Ence freedom of will is incompatible with psycho logical situations where causal analysis is reasonably attempted. Environmental factors greatly influence intellectual development.
Equally important was the inculca- tion from his father's example of the habit of work for practical aims, using simple means at hand. Especially I shall refer to a conversation between two cousins, one of whom is very soberly efficient in practical affairs, of the type which then, and even now, is known among students as a philistine, whereas the other, called the licentiate, is addicted to remote philosophical meditations detrimental to his social activities. Especially a closer examination of these measurements showed that all the differences between the frequencies of the components were equal to entire multipla of a certain quantity, which was the same for all lines in the spectrum and, within the limits of experimental errors, equal 3hF .
Especially attention may be drawn to the simple interpretation which the quantum theory offers of the appearance observed by Stark and his collaborators of certain new series of lines, which do not appear under ordinary circumstances, but which are excited when the emitting atoms are subject to intense external electric fields. Especially illuminating was his demonstration of the identity of the particle velocity with the group velocity of a wave-packet built up of components with wavelengths confined to a small interval, and each related to a value of the momentum by Einstein's equation between the momentum of a photon and the corresponding wavelength of radiation.
Especially it has been possible to show that for the ionization of an atom by electron impact an amount of energy is necessary that is exactly equal to the work required, according to the theory, to remove the last electron captured from the atom. Especially the connection developed work of Born and Jordan, as well as of Dirac, the theory by Ladenburg and Kramers between the classical treat was given a formulation which can compete with clas- ment of dispersion and the statistical laws governing the sical mechanics as regards generality and consistency.
Especially the connexion developed by 1928 Nature Publishing Group Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 585 Ladenburg and Kramers between the classical quantum postulate, has been of fundamental treatment of dispersion and the statistical laws importance, Here the generalisation of the governing the radiative transition processes for- symbolical method made by Dirac and Jordan mulated by Einstein should be mentioned here. Especially the continued study of such processes revealed most remarkable resonance effects of a sharpness far surpassing that of the peaks in the cross-section of oc-ray induced reactions first observed by Pose, and Gurney's explanation of which, on the basis of the to potential well model, Gamow at once drew Rutherford's attention.
Especially the contmued study of such processes revealed most remarkable resonance effects of a sharpness far surpassing that of the peaks m the cross sect10n of IX-ray induced reactions first observed by Pose and to Gurney's explanation of which, on the basis of the potential well model, Gamow at once drew Rutherford's attent10n." Especially the element characteristic possibilities of definition as well as of observa- of the quantum theory, Plancks constant, appears tion before the mind. Especially the inner structure of the nucleus and the way in which the charges and masses are distributed among its separate particles will have a vanishingly small influence on the motion of the electron system surrounding the nucleus. Especially the interterence phErTO'IneTia ternal disturbances.
Especially the many quotations in Eve's book from Rutherford's astonishingly large correspondence give a vivid impres- sion of his relations with colleagues and pupils all over the world. Especially the many quotations in Eve's book from Rutherford's astonishingly large correspondence give a vivid impression of his relations with colleagues and pupils all over the world. Especially the more complete classi- fication of stationary quantum states by the use of invariant action integrals had, in the hands of Sommerfeld and his school, led to an explanation of many details in the structure of spectra and especially of the Stark effect, the discovery of which had so definitely excluded the possibility of tracing the appearance of line spectra to harmonic vibrations of the electrons in the atom.
Especially this situation prevents the unlimited combination of space-time coordination and the conservation laws of momentum and energy on which the causal pictorial description of classical physics rests. Especially, I think that we all agree that, in the art of medicine, we are not attempting at repairing the organism like technicians who replace some outworn piece of machinery, but at establishing proper conditions for enabling the organism to restore itself and regain health.
Especially, it was essential to take into account the relationship between the rate of a clock and its position in a gravitational field well known from the red-shift of the lines in the sun's spectrum following from Einstein's principle of equivalence between gravity effects and the phenomena observed in accelerated reference frames.
Especially, the singular position of measuring instruments in the account of quantum phenomena, just discussed, appears closely analogous to the well-known necessity in relativity theory of upholding an ordinary description of all measuring processes, including a sharp distinction between space and time coordinates, although the very essence of this theory is the establishment of new physical laws, in the comprehension of which we must renounce the customary separation of space and time ideas. Eve THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 yi also does not fail to reportsome of the humorous stories which con- stantly grew around Rutherford, and to which I alluded in a speech, reproduced in his book, when Rutherford for the second and last time visited us in Copenhagen in 1932.
Eve also does not fail to report some of the humorous stories which constantly grew around Rutherford, and to which I alluded in a speech, reproduced in his book, when Rutherford for the second and last time visited us m Copenhagen in 1932." Even Rutherford's famous formula for the scattering of charged particles by atomic nuclei had, as was shown by Mott, to be essentially modified when applied to collisions between identical like protons and hydrogen nuclei particles or oc-rays and helium nuclei. Even before the appearance of the papers by Lorentz and Jeans, Planck (1900) had derived theoretically a formula for the black body radiation which was in good agreement with the results of experiment.
Even for systems possessing radial or axial symmetry, however, the conclusions which we can draw by means of the correspondence principle are of a more detailed character than can be obtained solely from a consideration of the conservation of angular momentum. Even if it has not at present been possible to follow in detail the various steps in the formation of the group this result is nevertheless confirmed in an interesting manner by the fact that it is possible to arrange three configurations having six electrons each in a simple manner relative to one another.
Even if it involves repetition of argu- ments already presented, it may serve to give a clearer inlpression of the ideas under discussion on these occasions to quote a memorandum, dated Nay 17, 1948, submitted to the Secretary of State as a basis for conversations in Washington in June 1948: The deep-rooted divergencies in attitudes to many aspects of human relationship which have grown out of social and political developments in the last decades, were bound to present a serions strain on international relations at the conclusion of the second world war.
Even if such an attitude might seem well-balanced in itself, it nevertheless implies a rejection of the whole argumentation exposed in the preceding, aiming to show that, in quantum mechanics, we are not dealing with an arbitrary renunciation of a more detailed analysis of atomic phenomena, but with a recognition that such an analysis is in principle excluded. Even if the Object is illuminated by parallel light, of the radiation used. Even if the composition of the wave- defined individuals within finite space-time regions.
Even if the libera- tion of nuclear energy for technological purposes was still to come, it must have been a great satisfaction for Rutherford that the explanation of the hitherto completely unknown source of solar energy as a result of the development he had initiated had come within the horizon in his lifetime. Even if the liberation of nuclear energy for technological purposes was still to come, 1t must have been a great satisfaction for Rutherford that the explanat10n of the hitherto completely unknown source of solar energy as a result of the development he had mitiated had come within the horizon in his lifetime."
Even if the mo- from any possibility of taking these reactions mentum of this particle is completely known separately into account in predictions regarding before it impinges on the diaphragm, the diffrac- the final result of the experiment,say the posi- tion by the slit of the plane wave giving the tion of the spot produced by the particle on the symbolic representation of its state will imply photographic plate. Even if the momentum of this particle is completely known before it impinges on the diaphragm, the diffraction by the slit of the plane wave giving the symbolic representation of its state will imply an uncertainty in the momentum of the particle, after it has passed the diaphragm, which is the greater the narrower the slit.
Even if the of the spectra is assigned to individual origin transitions between stationary states, the correspondence principle thus led one, in view of Larmor's general theorem, to expect a normal Zeeman effect for all lines emitted by electrons bound in a spectral Rather did the field of centralsymmetry, as in the Rutherford atom. Even if the positional co-ordinates of the par- In using an optical instrument for determina- ticle were accurately known in the beginning, our tions of position, it is necessary to remember that knowledge of the position after observation never- the formation of the image always requires a theless will be affected by an uncertainty.
Even if the positional co-ordinates that the exact knowledge of the wave-length is im- of the particle were accurately known in the beginnin g material for the above estimate, it will be realized that our knowledge of the position after observation never : for any value of the aperture the wave-train can always theless will be affected by an uncertainty. Even if the spectrum of scandium is not yet sufficiently cleared up, this difference seems to be of a much more fundamental character than for instance the difference between the arc spectra of sodium and copper, which apart from the large difference in the absolute values of the spectral terms possess a completely analogous structure, as previously mentioned in this essay.
Even if the theory of radiation must be completely altered, it is therefore a natural assumption that it is possible in such cases to obtain a close approximation in the description of the motion in the stationary states, by retaining only the latter forces. Even if these lines were present, it would be extremely difficult to observe them on account of their position with regard to the hydrogen lines, but should they be observed this would probably also settle the question of the origin of the spectrum, since no reason would seem to be left to assume the spectrum to be due to hydrogen.
Even if we assumed that we were fully acquainted with the normal state of the inner system in the absence of the outer electronwhich would be expected to be similar to the normal state of the neutral helium atomthe exact calculation of this mechanical problem would evidently form an exceedingly difficult task.
Even if we cannot make and conscious life, the material parallel of which must sharp distinction on a physical basis between health be sought in organic functions, which permit and disease, there is, in particular, no room for neither a causal mechanical description nor a scepticism as regards the solution of the important physical investigation sufficiently thorough-going problems which occupy this Congress, as long as for a well-defined application of the statistical one does not leave the highroad of progress, that laws of atomic mechanics.
Even medical science, which holds out such bright promise for the health of people all over the world, has created means of extinguishing life on a terrifying scale which im- ply grave menaces to civilization, unless universal confidence and responsibility can be firmly established. Even represent the idea of the individuality of the if the composition of the wave-group corresponds particles which, transcending the space-time de- in the beginning to the relations (2), it will in the seription, meets the claim of causality.
Even such structural elements of the organism often display properties and a behaviour which imply an 1 In the lecture in Cologne (which was given in German) the author inserted the following phrase In the last resort, it is a matter of how one makes head- : way in biology. Even that we can, or we can only do it because we thing because we gather so to speak, being able to make the best out of cir- will, the feeling of, the notion of cumstances is a common human experience. Even though a 32 orbit will not penetrate into the innermost configuration of 11 orbits, it will penetrate to distances from the nucleus which are considerably less than the radii of the circular 22 orbits.
Even though a certain inner consistency in this view of atomic structure will be recognized, it is, however, hardly necessary for me to emphasize the incomplete character of the theory, not only as regards the elaboration of details, but also so far as the foundation of the general points of view is concerned. Even though it has been possible to penetrate considerably further at many points than the time has permitted me to indicate to you, still it has not yet been possible to follow in detail all stages in the formation of the atoms. Even though it has not yet been possible to follow the development of the group step by step, we can even here give some theoretical evidence in favour of the occurrence of a symmetrical configuration of exactly this number of electrons.
Even though such calculations have not yet been made very accurately, a preliminary investigation has already shown that it is possible approximately to account for the experimental results. Even though the spectral lines of the elements with higher atomic number appear as combinations of a more complicated manifold of spectral terms which is not so simply co-ordinated with a series of whole numbers, still the spectral terms can be arranged in series each of which shows a strong similarity to the series of terms in the hydrogen spectrum.
Even though these acquisitions are in many respects of a lasting character, we have nevertheless received only recently an incisive admonition that the analysis of new experiences is liable to disclose again and again the unrecognized presuppositions for an unambiguous use of our most simple concepts, such as space-time description and causal connection. Even though this interaction may be assumed to be of such a nature that the harmonic components which would appear in the motion of an electron in the absence of the others will in general also appear in the resulting moment of the atom, we must expect that the interaction between the electrons will give rise to the appearance in this moment of new types of harmonic components.
Even though we may assume that this energy comes from systems of oscillating particles, we know little or nothing about these systems. Eventually, the prospect arose of arriving, by analysis of the processes by which the electrons one by one are bound to the nucleus, at a survey of the binding of every electron in the ground state of the Rutherford atom. Ever since I left Manchester in 1916, I had, of course, tried to use the experience gained in Rutherford's laboratory, and it is with gratitude that I recall how Rutherford from the very outset most kindly THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 53 and effectively supported my endeavours in Copenhagen to create an institute to promote intimate collaboration between theoretical and experimental physicists.
Ever since the possibilities of releasing atomic energy on a vast scale came in sight, much thought has naturally been given to the question of control, but the further the exploration of the scientific problems concerned is pro- ceeding, the clearer it becomes that no kind of customary measures will suffice for this purpose and that especially the terrifying prospect of a future competition between nations about a weapon of such formidable character can only be avoided through a universal agreement in true confidence. Every physicist is, of course, acquainted with the imposing series of brilliant investigations with which Rutherford to the very end of his life augmented our insight into the propertiesand constitution of atomic nuclei.
Every second of the lines in this series is identical with a line in the Bahner series of the hydrogen spectrum; the presence of hydrogen in the star in question may therefore account for the fact that these lines are of a ~ greater intensity than the rest of the lines in the series. Every unambiguous communication about the state and activity of our mind implies, of course, a separation between the content of our THE UNITY OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE 13 consciousness and the background loosely referred to as "ourselves", but any attempt at exhaustive description of the richness of conscious life demands in various situations a different placing of the section between subject and object.
Everyone associated with the atomic energy project was, of course, conscious- of lie serious problems which would confront humanity once the enterprise was accomplished. Everything that has been said about the successive formation of the group of electrons with 3quanta orbits applies unchanged to this stage in the transformation of the group with 4quanta orbits. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you AS-IS, WITH NO OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE. Except in the of the fundamental equations of classical mechanics. Except in the tion introduces a new uncontrollable element.
Excluding only such states for which the total angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus would be equal to zero, Burgers (loc. Experi- mental consideration had so far been limited to heavier atoms i.e. Experience of the help which substances occurring in nature can afford for the cure of human disease goes back to the infancy of civiliza- tion, when the conception of rational scientific inquiry was still un- known. F r o m this assumption we get exactly the same expressions as before for the stationary states, and from these by help of the principal assumptions on p. 7 the same expression ibr the law of tile hydrogen spectrum.
F. A configuration satisfying the condition E is stable if the total energy of the system is less than in any neighbouring configuration satisfying the same condition of angular momentum of the electrons. FORMATION OF ATOMS AND THE PERIODIC TABLE A correspondence has been shown to exist between the motion of the electron last captured and the occurrence of transitions between the stationary states corresponding to the various stages of the binding process. Faced with the question of how under such circumstances we can achieve an objective description, it is decisive to realize that however far the phenomena transcend the range of ordinary experience, the description of the experimental arrangement and the recording of observations must be based on - common language.
Fact discloses only an essential inadequacy of the customary viewpoint of natural philosophy for a rational account of physical phenomena of the type with which we are concerned in quantum mechanics. Far from being inconsistent, the as pects of quantum phenomena revealed by experience obtained under such mutually exclusive conditions must thus be considered complementary in quite a novel way. Far from giving rise to confusing complications, the recognition of the extent to which the account of physical experience depends on the standpoint of the observer proved most fertile in tracing fundamental laws valid for all observers.
Far from implying a schism between humanism and physical science, this development entails a of message importance for our attitude to common human problems, which as I shall try to show has given the old question of the unity of know- ledgenew perspective. Far from involving any special intricacy, the irreversible amplification effects on which the recording of the presence of atomic objects rests rather remind us of the essential irreversibility inherent in the very concept of observation. Far from restricting our efforts to put questions to nature in the form of experiments, the notion of complementarity simply characterizes the answers we can receive by such inquiry, whenever the interaction between the measuring instruments and the objects forms an integral part of the phenomena.
Fermi of Italy, however, made a more comprehensive study and examined the reactions with most elements. Ferric ions, for example, exhibit the same atomic magnetism as manganous ions, while manganic ions exhibit the same atomic magnetism as chromous ions. Few special stories of his school experiences have been reserved, indicating that he was not looked on as exceptional or peculiar in mannerisms. Finally, by passing a current of air over thoria through a long tube and by examining the conductivity at different parts of the tube he found that the radioactive effect of the gas decayed with time according to a definite geometrical law, falling to half value in approximately one minute.
First it has not only been possible to find levels, which within certain limits correspond to all possible pairs of numbers for n and k, but it has been found that in general to each such pair more than one level must be assigned. First of all we must realize that every experimental arrangement with which we could study the behaviour of the atoms constituting an organism to the extent to which this can be done for single atoms in the fundamental ex periments of atomic physics will exclude the possibility of maintaining the organism alive.
First printed in Great Britain at the University Press, Cambridge Reprinted by afiset-litho by Billing @' Son: Ltd., Guildford DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 53 upon our own judgment in order to escape from the pitfalls surrounding us on all sides, we have perhaps II more occasion than ever at every step to be remindful The Quantum Postulate and the Recent of the work of the old masters who have prepared the ground and furnished us with our tools. First, with Chadwick, he extended the work on nitrogen to such elements as boron, fluorine, sodium, iodine and phosphorus and showed that all these odd atomic number elements could be transformed by ac-particle bombard- ment with the subsequent emission of hydrogen nuclei.
Firstly the electronic configuration of the completed groups is repeated unchanged for increasing atomic number, and secondly the gradual way in which the incompleted groups are developed implies that a type of orbit, from the moment when it for the first time appears in the normal state of the neutral atom, always will occur in this state and will correspond to a steadily increasing firmness of binding. Firstly the smaller effect of the presence of previously bound electrons on the firmness of binding of succeeding electrons in the same group.
Firstly, it will be observed that it has not been necessary, in order to account for the law of the spectra by help of the expressions (3) for the stationary states, to assume that in any case a radiation is sent out corresponding to more than a single energy-quantum, hr. Following Becquerel's announcement he tried uranium and found that its radiations were able to produce ions in a gas with similar properties to those produced by X-rays. Following Fermi's observations with uranium bombarded by neutrons, Otto Hahn of Berlin, who had worked with Rutherford in Montreal and was an experienced radiochemist, took up the running and by careful chemical work assisted by Strassmann found late in 1938 that one of the products from uranium was barium-a highly unexpected result.
Following on, Feather at Cambridge found that, as Rutherford had forecast in 1920, the neutron is very effective in producing nuclear transformation, particularly when slowed down to so-called thermal speeds by simple multiple collisions. Following our picture of atomic structure, a hydrogen atom consists of a positive nucleus and an electron which - SO far as ordinary mechanical conceptions are applicable - will with great approximation describe a periodic elliptical orbit with the nucleus at one focus. Following this development at close hand, I have often had occasion to think of the dominating influence of Ruther- ford's original discovery of the atomic nucleus, which at every stage presented us with so forceful a challenge.
Food Storage at Low Temperature SOME of the problems involved in the preservation by pipe grids through which cold calcium chloride of food for transport and storage have been dis- | brine is pumped. For According to the above considerations regarding the accuracy, however, with which the change in the possibilities of definition of the properties of wave-length of the scattered radiation can be individuals, it will obviously make no difference measured the extent of the wave-train in the in the discussion of the accuracy of measurements direction of propagation is essential. For a central motion of this kind the stationary states are characterized by two quantum numbers.
For a conditionally periodic system possessing an axis of symmetry the angular momentum round this axis is, with the above choice of coordinates, h I3 = n3 . For a correlation of still deeper lying laws of nature involving not only the mutual interaction of the so-called elementary constituents of matter but also the stability of their existence, this last assumption can no longer be maintained, as we must be prepared for a more comprehensive generalization of the complementary mode of description which will demand a still more radical renunciation of the usual claims of so-called visualization. For a general definition procedure necessitates a further departure from of these concepts we are confined to the congerva- visualisation in the usual sense.
For a given external field, however, it may be possible to choose a set of orbital constants 2 , . For a given law of force for the perturbing field we find that depends both on the major axis and on the eccentricity. For a parallel to the lesson of atomic theory regarding the limited applicability of such customary ide alisations, we must in fact turn to quite other branches of science, such as psychology, or even to that kind of epistemological problems with which al ready thinkers like Buddha and Lao Tse have been confronted, when trying to harmonize our position as spectators and actors in the great drama of existence. For a purely periodic motion like that assumed in the case of the hydrogen atom only a single quantum number is necessary for the determination of the stationary states.
For a simply periodic motion such as we meet in the pure harmonic oscillator, and at least to a first approximation, in the motion of an electron about a positive nucleus, the manifold of stationary states can be simply co-ordinated to a series of whole numbers. For a summary of the theory contradiction, have been definitely disproved through direct experiments. For a system consisting of a nucleus and an electron rotating round it, this state is, according to the above, determined by the condition that the angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus is h equal to ~ .
For a time it seemed as though this theory would also be able to furnish a basis for an explanation of the details of the properties of the elements, after it had been developed, chiefly by Lorentz and Larmor, into a form consistent with the atomistic conception of electricity. For a transition between two stationary states for which the values of the energy of the atom before and after the emission of radiation are E 0 and E 00 respectively, we have therefore h = E 0 E 00 , (1) where h is Plancks constant and is the frequency of the emitted radiation. For all the other series the effect was very small, and in most cases even difficult of detection.
For an element of atomic number N the process of formation may be regarded as occurring in N stages, corresponding with the successive binding of N electrons in the field of the nucleus. For an element to absorb light corresponding to a given line in its series spectrum, it is therefore necessary for the atom of this element to be in that one of the two states connected with the line possessing the smaller energy value. For an orbit of this type the stationary states, just as in the theory of the fine structure, will be determined by two quantum numbers which we shall denote by n and k, connected in a very simple manner with the kinematic properties of the orbit. For any high value of this orbit is approximately the same as that of the electron in a hydrogen atom.
For any such motion we get from (23) I = (1 n1 + + s ns )h = nh, (24) where n is a whole number which may take all positive values if, as in the applications mentioned below, at least one of the s is equal to one. For both systems of lines emitted by helium, Stark observed an effect on the lines of the Diffuse series which was of the same order of magnitude as that observed for the hydrogen lines, but of a different type.
For both types of transitions the integer n may change by any number of units, but in transitions of the first type the integer n will remain constant and the emitted radiation will be polarised parallel to the direction of the field, while in transitions of the second type n will decrease or increase by one unit and the emitted radiation will be circularly polarised in a plane perpendicular to the field, the direction of the polarisation being the same as or the opposite of that of the superposed rotation respectively.
For brevity I shall only mention that while the quantum number k is connected with the value of the constant angular momentum of the electron about the centre in the simple manner previously indicated, the determination of the principal quantum number n requires an investigation of the whole course of the orbit and for an arbitrary central orbit will not be related in a simple way to the dimensions of the rotating periodic orbit if this deviates essentially from a Keplerian ellipse. For configurations more symmetrical, in which the centre of gravity of the inner electrons coincides with that of the nucleus, will be zero and the perturbing forces will be given by the higher terms in (25). For details the reader is referred to Costers paper in the Philosophical Magazine.
For exactly the same reasons it is a necessary condition for the mechanical invariance of the stationary states of a conditionally periodic system, that the alteration of the external conditions during an interval in which the system has passed approximately through all possible configurations within the above mentioned s-dimensional extension in the coordinate-space can be made as small as we like. For example, a slight draught of air caused by the opening and shutting of the door of the room often altered markedly the movement of the electrometer needle.
For example, in the case of the hydrogen atom perturbed by a central force we can only conclude that k cannot change by more than unity, while the correspondence principle requires that k shall vary by unity for every possible transition and that its value cannot remain unchanged. For example, it has been already shown in paper IV. For example, the experiments regard- however, that such a measurement is impossible, ing the excitation of spectra by electronic impacts if at the same time one wants to know the position and by radiation are adequately accounted for on of the microscope with sufficient accuracy.
For example, when it has would, indeed, be far from the mind of a physicist been suggested that the will might have as its at a time when the very recognition of the limited field of activity the regulation of certain atomic character of our most fundamental concepts has processes within the organism, for which on the resulted in such far-reaching developments of our atomic theory only probability calculations may science. For forty years, he produced and distributed Project GutenbergTM eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. For high values of the inner electron in the two configurations will act on the outer electron very nearly as a ring of uniformly distributed charge with the nucleus in the centre or as a line charge extending from the nucleus, respectively.
For higher values of however, is great compared with the values of ordinary atomic dimensions. For if this were the case the correspondence principle would indicate under all conditions a normal Zeeman effect for each component of the doublets. For in Sommerfelds theory the general condition for the fixation of the stationary states of a central system, which in the special case of an approximately Keplerian motion is equivalent to the relation (25), asserts that the angular momentum of the h system must be equal to a whole multiple of , a condition 2 which may be written in our notation P =k h .
For in no case have we made use of the absolute values of the quantum numbers nor of assumptions concerning the form of the orbits but only of the number of possible types of orbits which might come into consideration. For instance it has been possible to obtain this spectrum from pure helium. For instance, the divergencies from the characteristic valency conditions of the elements in the second and third periods appear later in the fifth period than for elements in the fourth period. For large values of n, 2a becomes very large in proportion to the calculated dimensions of the atoms. For large values of n1 and n2 , we must therefore expect that the apriori probability of a stationary state corresponding to a given combination (n1 , n2 ) is proportional to n2 .
For lecting the interaction with the agency of measurement example, the experiments regarding the excitation of means that every observation introduces a new uncon- spectra by electronic impacts and by radiation are ade- trollable element. For like the third electron in the lithium atom, the last captured electrons in these elements will be much more lightly bound than the first two electrons. For motions of the more general class mentioned above, the so-called multiplyperiodic motions, however, the stationary states compose a more complex manifold, in which, according to these formal methods, each state is characterized by several whole numbers, the so-called "quantum numbers".
For one, we have assmned that the different stationary states correspond to an emission of a different number of energy-quanta. For other elements of higher atomic number, where several spectra will be connected with the formation of the atom, we are at present acquainted with only two types, called the arc and spark spectra respectively, according to the experimental conditions of excitation. For other spectra, this effect is even more complex than for the hydrogen spectrum, in some cases not only are a great number of components observed, but the components are generally not symmetrical with regard to the original line, and their distance apart varies from line to line in the same series in a far more irregular way than for the hydrogen.
For our assumptions about the orbits of the electrons are based directly on an investigation of the interaction between these electrons and the first two bound electrons. For our theme it is important to realize that the definition of mathe- matical symbols and operations is based on simple logical use of com- mon language. For our theme it is of decisive importance that the fundamental feature of complementarity in quantum physics, adapted as it is to the clarification of the well-known paradoxes concerning the dual character of electromagnetic radiation and material particles, is equally con- spicuous in the account of the properties of atomic and molecular systems.
For our theme, however, the decisive point is that the physical content of quantum mechanics is exhausted by its power to formulate statistical laws governing observations obtained under conditions specified in plain language. For r great we consequently get 2~me 4 lim (,:. For represented a great progress by making possible the the discussron of just the question the method of wave operation with matrices, which are not arranged accord- mechanics developed by SchrOdinger has, as we shall see, ing to the stationary states, but where the possible proved of great help.
For sim- individuals with respect to a co-ordinate system 1928 Nature Publishing Group 584 Supplement to * Nature, April 14, 1928 fixed in the ordinary way by means of solid bodies in the causal description of its dynamical be- and unperturbable clocks. For simplicity let us assume that at least one of the s, say s , is equal to one, and that consequently, as mentioned on page 40, the number n in (24), which characterises the stationary states of the undisturbed system, may take all positive values. For simplicity we known before the scattering process, our knowledge of here have regarded the velocity of light as large cOm- V the component of momentum parallel to the focal plane pared to the velocity of the particle.
For simplicity, let us suppose that the mass of the nucleus is infinitely great in comparison with that of the electron. For simplicity~ let us assume that the mass of the electron is negligibly small in comparison with that of the nucleus, and further, that the velocity of the electron is small compared with that of light. For since mercury vapour absorbs light of wave-length 1850, the lines of this series as well as the line 2536 must correspond to a transition from the normal state of the atom to other stationary states of the neutral atom (see I. p. 16). For small fields each component splits up into a large number of sharp lines instead of into the normal Lorentz triplet.
For some time it was uncertain to what extent this explanation was correct, since in the experiments on mercury vapour it was found that, together with the occurrence of nonelastic impacts, ions were always formed in the vapour. For special systems it may occur that the orbit will not cover the above mentioned s-dimensional extension everywhere dense, but will, for all values of the s, be confined to an extension of less dimensions.
For such endeavours of seeking the proper balance between seriousness and humour, Einstein's own personality stands as a great example and, when expressing my belief that through a singularly fruitful co- operation of a whole generation of physicists we are nearing the goal where logical order to a large extent allows us to avoid deep truth, I hope that it will be taken in his spirit and may serve as an apology for several utterances in the preceding pages. For systems containing more than one electron the detailed discussion may be very complicated, as there will be many different configurations of the electrons which can be taken into con- sideration as stationary states.
For systems of one degree of freedom the phase-space is a two-dimensional surface, and the points representing the states of some system given by (10) will be situated on closed curves on this surface. For the Principal series the difference diminishes rapidly with the number of the line in the series, the difference being approximately proportional to the inverse fourth power of this number. For the Rutherford atom we should not even expect a line spectrum, since, according to ordinary electrodynamics, the frequencies of radiation accompanying the electronic motion would change continuously with the energy emitted. For the accuracy, however, formula (2).
For the calculation of the energy in the stationary states it will therefore be necessary to consider the secular perturbing effect of the second external field on these cycles. For the completion of this great task the emphasis on the formal analogy between mechanics and optics, originally stressed by Hamilton, proved most helpful and instructive. For the development and completion of the electronic groups with 3quanta orbits will proceed, so to say, in competition with the binding of electrons in orbits of higher quanta, since the binding of electrons in 3quanta orbits occurs when the electrons in these orbits are bound more firmly than electrons in 41 orbits.
For the discussion of just explicitly only in the algorithms to which the this question the method of wave mechanics symbols, the so-called matrices, are subjected. For the elements in the neighbourhood of xenon and krypton he has obtained results illustrated by the diagrams given in fig. For the excitation of any line in the radiation, it is therefore necessary that the electron should be completely removed from the atom. For the frequency of the radiation emitted by a transition, we get according to (5) K n0 + n00 K 0 00 = 00 2 0 2 = (n n )K 0 2 00 2 .
For the frequency of this rotation we get from (46) v= 1 D2 1 = , 2 Dt 2 2 (62) from which we get directly for the difference between the values of for two neighbouring states of the perturbed system, for which the corresponding value of I is the same, = 2v 2 . For the latter system, which is frequently called a Planck oscillator, the energy in the stationary states is determined by the familiar formula E = nh, and with the aid of the frequency relation we obtain therefore for the radiation which will be emitted during a transition between two stationary states = (n0 n00 ). For the mechanical interpretation of the calculations we need therefore only assume that the eccentricity is very nearly unity for the large orbits.
For the modern rapid development of science and in particular for the adventurous exploration of the properties and structure of the atom, international cooperation of an unprecedented extension and in- tensity has been of decisive importance. For the non-appearance of these components the theories of Sommerfeld and Debye offered no explanation, no more than for the polarisation of the components observed; except that Sommerfeld in this connection draws attention to the fact, that the law governing the observed polarisations exhibits a certain analogy to the empirical rule of Epstein concerning the observed polarisations of the components of the Stark effect of the hydrogen lines (see page 149).
For the occasion I was invited to give a general survey of these recent developments of quantum theory, but as I was prevented by illness from taking part in the conference, Ehrenfest kindly undertook the task of presenting my paper, to which he added a very clear summary of the essential points of the correspondence argument. For the one type corresponding to the rectilinear component, k remains unchanged, and in the emitted radiation which possesses the same frequency 0 as the original hydrogen line, the electric vector will oscillate parallel with the field. For the problem of the stability of the atom the essential problem is at what stage such a process comes to an end.
For the problem under consideration it will be seen that, with this choice of constants, the mean value of the potential of the perturbing field will, besides on 1 , generally depend on 2 and 2 as well as on 3 , but due to the symmetry round the axis it will obviously not depend on 3 . For the problem under consideration, however, a detailed examination of the perturbations is not necessary. For the radiation, Kossel makes assumptions analogous to those for the radiation, with the distinction that the radiation is ascribed to the removal of an electron from ring 2 instead of ring 1.
For the rate of variation of with the time we have further E d = q3 = = f (q1 , q2 , p1 , p2 , p3 ) dt p3 X = C001 ,2 cos 2 (1 1 + 2 2 )t + c001 ,2 , where the two signs correspond to a rotation of the particle in the direction of increasing and decreasing q3 respectively, and are introduced to separate the two types of symmetrical motions corresponding to these directions. For the ratio between the displacements of and we get from (21) 0.7168, independent of the magnitude of the electric force. For the requirement of communicability of the circumstances and results of experiments implies that we can speak of well defined experiences only within the framework of ordinary concepts. For the sake of brevity, we shall refer to the innermost ring as ring 1, the next one as ring 2, and so on.
For the sake of convenience the states which were regarded as corresponding to the same value of n are connected by means of dotted lines, and these are so drawn that their vertical asymptotes correspond to the terms in the hydrogen spectrum which belong to the same value of the principal quantum number. For the sake of simplicity the electron orbits in the stationary states are represented by circles, although in reality the theory places no restriction on the eccentricity of the orbit, but only determines the length of the major axis. For the sake of simplicity we shall for the moment disregard the variation of the mass of the electron with its velocity.
For the sake of simplicity we shall suppose the mass of the nucleus to be infinite in comparison with the mass of the electron, and further we shall disregard the small variations in the motion due to the change in mass of the electron with its velocity. For the sake of the considerations in the following sections it will be convenient here to give the proof in a form which differs slightly from that given by Ehrenfest, and which takes also regard to the modifications in the ordinary laws of mechanics claimed by the theory of relativity. For the second type, corresponding to the circular components, k will increase or decrease by unity, and the radiation viewed in the direction of the field will be circularly polarized and have frequencies 0 + and 0 respectively.
For the set of s, corresponding to this set of s, we may take 2 equal to the angle, which the major axis makes with the line in which the plane of the orbit cuts the plane through the nucleus perpendicular to the axis of the field, and 3 equal to the angle between this line and a fixed direction in the latter plane. For the spark spectra, therefore, the energy values in the corresponding stationary states of the atom will be given by an expression of the same type as (13), only with the difference that K is replaced by 4K. For the spectra of elements of still higher atomic number the mechanical problem which has to be solved in order to describe the motion in the stationary states becomes still more difficult.
For the spectra of other elements the problem becomes more complicated, since the atoms contain a larger number of electrons. For the strongest line in the radiation he found that the frequency for a great number of elements was represented with considerable accuracy by the empirical formula where is the Rydberg constant in the hydrogen spectrum. For the total alteration in the inner energy of the system during this process we get then, with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 , Z 1 = e 0 3 e t X qk dt 1 qk c Z 0 B dt, where the first term represents the work done on the system by the slowly increasing external electric forces, while the second term represents the work performed by the induced electric forces which accompany the variation in the intensity of the magnetic field.
For the total energy of the system we have where is an arbitrary constant. For the treatment of this problem the theory of conditionally periodic systems based on the conditions (22) does not seem to suffice, while, as it will be shown in Part III, it appears that the method of perturbations exposed in the following lends itself naturally also to this case. For the undisturbed system we have then, according to equation (23), that the quantity I, defined by (5), is equal to 1 I1 + + s Is , where I1 , . For the use of rods and clocks to fix the system of reference makes it by definition impossible to take into account the energy of momentum which might be transferred to them in the course of the phenomenon.
For the value of I in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom we get by means of (8) from (37) and (41), since in this case I will obviously become zero when W becomes infinite, s Z Z dW 2 N 2 e4 M m 3/2 = W dW I= 2(M + m) Wn Wn s 2 2 N 2 e4 M m = = nh.
For the value of this frequency in the multitude of states of the perturbed system, for which the mean value of the inner energy is equal to the energy En in a stationary state of the undisturbed system corresponding to a given value of n, we get from the above calculation, introducing for and the values of n and n given by (41), 3hn F. (76) 8 2 N em Now from the periodic motion of the electrical centre we may conclude that, in the presence of the field, the system will be able to emit or absorb a radiation of frequency vF , and that accordingly the possible values of the additional energy of the system in the presence of the field will be given directly by Plancks fundamental formula (9), holding for the possible values of the total energy of a linear harmonic vibrator, if in this formula is replaced by the above frequency vF .
For the variation in I we get then Z X s s X (qk pk + pk qk ) dt + pk qk t , I = 0 1 1 0 where the last term refers to the variation of the limit of the integral due to the variation in the period . For the varied motion we have on the other hand: t= Z t= X Z X s s s s X X 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Nk Ik + pk qk , pk dqk = pk qk dt = 0 1 t=0 1 1 1 t=0 where the Is correspond to the conditionally periodic motion in the coordinates q10 , . For the work in the new Institute it was of great benefit that we were joined shortly after the war by my old friend from the Manchester days, George Hevesy, who during the more than twenty years he worked in Copenhagen carried out many of his famous physico- chemical and biological researches, based on the isotopic tracer method.
For this it will be necessary to assume that the orbit of the electron cannot take on all values, and in any event, the line spectrum clearly indicates that the oscillations of the electron cannot vary continuously between wide limits. For this malism contribute to secure its mathematical complete- purpose they propose a *criterion of reality ness and its rational correspondence with classical me- chanics. For this purpose a series of simple experiments have been described leading up to the truths in the science'. For this purpose we must describe the motion of the outer electron in terms of its harmonic components.
For this purpose, it is decisive to recognise that, however far the phenomena transcend the scope of classical physical explanation, the account of all evidence must be expressed in classical terms. For this purpose, we shall examine the simple case of a particle penetrating through a hole in a diaphragm without or with a shutter to open and close the hole, as indicated in Figs. For this reason the form of the orbit in the stationary states of the inner system considered by itself will not be determined. For this reason we must assume that the influence of the inner system upon the motion of the external electron will, in general, be of the same character as the perturbations produced by a constant external field upon the motion of the electron in the hydrogen atom.
For this state W will have its greatest value and, consequently, the atom will have emitted the largest amount of energy possible; this will therefore represent the most stable state of the atom from which the system cannot be transferred except by adding energy to it from without. For this value of n2 the motion of the electron would take place in a plane through the axis, but for certain external fields such motions cannot be regarded as physically realisable stationary states of the atom, since in the course of the perturbations the electron would collide with the nucleus (compare page 134). For v = 1 2 the diameter is equal to 1"6.10-Scm., or equal to the mean distance between the molecule's in a gas at a pressure of about 7 mm.
For various reasons we have up to the present time been prevented from publishing, but in the very near future we hope to give an account of these results and of the light which they seem to throw upon the helium spectrum. For we must assume that this continuous absorption corresponds to transitions from the normal state to states in which the electron is in a position to remove itself infinitely far from the nucleus. For, it is possible to show, that, if the investigation is not confined to oscillations of long wave lengths, as in Lorentzs work, but is also extended to oscillations corresponding to small wave lengths, results are obtained which are contrary to experiment.
Foremost among these were Lennard- Jones and Hartree, who both contributed, each along his own line, to the develop- ment of atomic and molecular physics, and especially Dirac, who from his early youth distinguished himself his by unique logical power. Formally, we may therefore compare a periodic system exposed to an external field with a simple mechanical system of one degree of freedom in which the particle performs a slow oscillating motion. Formula (12) applies only approximately, but it is always found that the frequencies of the spectral lines can be written, as in formulae (2) and (12), as a difference of two functions of integral numbers.
Fortunately, the law of temperature radiation has also successfully indicated the direction in which the necessary changes in the electrodynamics are to be sought. Fortunately, the risk of falling into the deplorable situation of the licentiate is small in normal ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE with practical life where we become gradually accustomed to coping necessities and learn to communicate in common language what we In such the balance between need and what is on our mind.
Fortunately, within two years the experiments of Moseley in the same laboratory gave a more precise significance, in terms of the numerical order of elements in the periodic classification, to the effective number of positive charges in the nucleus of various atoms indicating that the all important property of an atom in its relation to physical and chemical phenomena was not the atomic weight but the so-called atomic number, i.e. Fowler showed that the frequency of the lines in these spectra, as of the lines in the ordinary spectra, can be represented by the formula (11).
Fowler showed that the principle of combination holds for these spectra although the laws governing the numerical relation between the lines at an important point (see section 3 ) differed from those of the ordinary series spectra. Fowler, as I have mentioned, has recently succeeded in observing Pickerings and Rydbergs lines in a laboratory experiment. Franck and Hertz assume that 4.9 volts corresponds to the energy necessary to remove an electron from the mercury atom, but it seems that their experiments may possibly be consistent with the assumption that this voltage corresponds only to the transition from the normal state to some other stationary state of the neutral atom.
Frequently, in the company of colleagues, both older and younger, my father would enjoy recalling his vivid memories of the often dramatic events associated with the origin and gradual clarification of the new ideas. From (1) and (9) we obtain therefore the simple result that the frequency of any radiation emitted or absorbed by a linear harmonic vibrator is equal to the constant frequency 0 . From (1), we therefore get DE . From (10) it appears that the condition (8) holds, not only for large values of but for all values of .
From (32) and (34) we see that the motion in the present case may be considered as composed of a number of linear harmonic vibrations parallel to the axis of symmetry and of frequencies equal to the absolute values of (1 1 + 2 2 ), together with a number of circular harmonic motions round this axis of frequencies equal to the absolute values of (1 1 + 2 2 + 3 ), and possessing the same direction of rotation as that of the moving particle or the opposite if the latter expression is positive or negative respectively. From (5 ) equation (28) follows at once, and it will further be seen that by introducing (5 ) in (3 ) we get the result that every of the qs, and consequently also any one-valued function of the qs, can be represented by an expression of the type (31).
From (63) it follows that the necessary relation between the additional energy of the atom and the frequency of the perturbations is secured if the stationary states in the presence of a small external central field are characterised by the condition I = 22 = nh, (64) where n is an entire number. From (7) we see that vanishes for large values of, and that at the same time the ratio tends to unity. From (8) it follows at once that (9) is equivalent to Z Z I= pq dt = p dq = nh, (10) 0 where the latter integral is to be taken over a complete oscillation of q between its limits. From Fowlers results, it will appear that the helium spectrum given by (3) for has exactly the same relation to the spectra of enhanced lines of other elements as the hydrogen spectrum has to the ordinary spectra.
From Lawrence Bragg's recently published Ruther- ford Lecture I have been very interested to learn that William Bragg, then in Leeds, in his first investigation of X-ray spectra, based on Laue's discovery in 1912, was fully aware of the bearing of Whiddington's results on the connection between the Barkla radiation and the ordering of the elements in Mendeleev's table, a problem which through Mose- ley's work in Manchester soon was to receive such complete elucida- tion.
From Lawrence Bragg's recently published Rutherford Lecture I have been very interested to learn that William Bragg, then in Leeds, in his first investigation of x-ray spectra, based on Laue's discovery in 1912, was fully aware of the bearing of Whiddington's results on the connection between the Barkla radiation and the ordering of the elements in Mendeleev's table, a problem which through Moseley's work in Manchester soon was to receive such complete elucidation." From Manchester, Marsden returned to New Zealand to take up his own university duties, but kept in close contact with Rutherford through the years. From Rutherford's own address I especially remember the warintoh with which he greeted the latest success of his old friend C.T.R.
From Rutherford's own address I especially remember the warmth with which he greeted the latest success of his old friend C. T. R. Wilson, who by the ingenious cloud chamber method had just then obtained the first photographs of tracks of oc-rays exhibiting clear cases of sharp bends in their usual remarkably straight path. From a brilliant series of experiments J. J. Thomson and Rutherford were able to explain the main features of the conductivity on the hypothesis that charged ions were produced by the radiation throughout the volume of the gas.
From a comparison between (75) and (77), we see that the presence of the external field imposes the restriction on the motion of the atom in the stationary states, that the plane in which the electrical centre of the orbit moves must have a distance from the nucleus vF = equal to an entire multiple of the nth part of its maximum 3 distance n . From a comparison of the spectral terms of the various alkali metals, Roschdestwensky has drawn the conclusion that the normal state does not, as we might be inclined to expect a priori, correspond to a 11 orbit as shown in fig.
From a consideration analogous to that given in 2, we may further 1 ) If the relativity modifications are taken into account, the orbit of the electron in the undisturbed atom is not strictly periodic, but it will be seen that the secular variations of this orbit are still obtained from the equations (46), if only, to the expression for as defined in the text, a term is added which is equal to the expression for given by formula (70) in 3. conclude that, in the stationary states of the perturbed system, the quantity = E + M may be taken equal to the additional energy of the system due to the presence of the external fields. From a simple calculation it is found that the period a is given by the following formula = 3eF , 8 2 ma (18) where F is the intensity of the external electric field.
From an estimate of the amplitudes of the particular components in the initial and final states it has even been found possible to account for the varying facility with which the new lines are brought up by the external field. From analogy with formula (3) giving the stationary states of the hydrogen atom, we shall therefore assume that the numerical value of the expression on the righthand side of (13) will be equal to the work required to remove the last captured electron from the atom, the binding of which gives rise to the arc spectrum of the element.
From analogy with the above considerations and in order to obtain agreement with Starks result we shall assume that this polarization holds also for small values of Introducing in (21) the experimental values for and putting corresponding to an electric force of 13,000 volt per cm., we obtain for the distance between The components of and cm. From analogy with the constitution of the groups of electrons with 2quanta orbits we might at first sight be inclined to suppose that the complete group of 3quanta orbits would consist of three subgroups of four electrons each in orbits of the types 31 , 32 and 33 respectively, so that the total number of electrons would be 12 instead of 18.
From analogy with the fixation of the distinctive energy values of a Planck oscillator we must therefore expect that the energy difference between two different states, corresponding to the same stationary state of the unperturbed system, will simply be equal to a whole multiple of the product of h by the period of the perturbations.
From analogy with the theory of ordinary conditionally periodic systems which allow of separation of variables, the perturbations may in such a case be said to be conditionally periodic, and, from a calculation quite analogous to that leading to equation (29) in Part I which is based entirely on the use of the Hamiltonian equations, we get for the difference in for two slightly different states of the perturbed system, for which the value of I in the corresponding states of the undisturbed system is the same, s1 X = vk Ik , (52) 1 where vk is the mean frequency of oscillation of k+1 between its limits, and where the quantities Ik are defined by Z Ik = k+1 Dk+1 , (k = 1, .
From analogy with the theory of the stationary states of the latter systems, where n1 and n2 are entire numbers, it will therefore be seen that we obtain the right relation between the additional energy E = of the perturbed atom and the frequencies of the secular perturbations of the orbit of the electron. From appears particularly in that the use of observations the point of view taken here, just this renunciation concerning the behaviour of particles in the atom forms the necessary condition for an unambiguous rests on the possibility of neglecting, during the definition of the energy of the atom.
From considerations about the volume of the extensions in the phase-space, which might be considered as associated with the states characterised by different combinations (n1 , n2 ), Sommerfeld proposes several different expressions for the a-priori probability of such states. From considerations of analogy, however, we must expect that it will be possible also in the general case to obtain an estimate of the intensities of the different lines in the spectrum by comparing the intensity of a given line, corresponding to a transition between two stationary states characterised by the numbers n01 , . From equation (1) we find relation (2), the associated space-time regions can thus: be given the same size for both individuals in MAE =AzAL, =AyA1, =828, =h .
From equation (1) we find thus: I where c denotes the velocity of light. From formula (12) we thus obtain for an arc spectrumif we temporarily disregard the structure of the individual linesinformation about an ensemble of stationary states, for which the energy of the atom in the nth state of the kth series is given by Ek (n) = Kh (n + k )2 (13) very similar to the simple formula (3) for the energy in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom. From my side, I reported about the progress with the work on a more general representation of the quantum theory of atomic constitution which at that time was further stimulated by the development as regards the classification of stationary states, already referred to.
From my viewpoint, however, I could only answer that, in dealing with the task of bringing order into an entirely new field of experience, we could hardly trust in any accustomed principles, however broad, apart from the demand of avoiding logical inconsistencies and, in this respect, the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics should surely meet all requirements. From our figure, however, we would expect ions to be produced only when the kinetic energy of the electrons is sufficiently great to bring the atom out of the normal state to the common limit of the states.
From our point of view we now see that the wording of the above-mentioned criterion of physical reality proposed by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen contains an ambiguity as regards the meaning of the expression "without in any way disturbing a system. " From purely chemical considerations Bury arrives at conclusions which as regards the arrangement and completion of the groups in the main coincide with those of the present theory, the outlines of which were given in my letters to Nature mentioned in the introduction. From relation (8), which holds for two neighbouring motions of any periodic system, it follows further that the energy of the system will be completely determined by the value of I, just as for systems of one degree of freedom.
From remembrances of our own childhood and the teaching of our children, we have all learned how playful counting is gradually replaced by a more conscious appreciation of the powerful tool for ordering manifolds of things and events that is represented by the rules of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division.
From the above con- sideration it will follow that, taking the starting-point in the form of the law of the hydrogen spectrum and assuming that the different lines correspond to a homogeneous radiation emitted during the p~lssing between different stationary states, we shall arrive at exactly the same expression for the constant in question as that given by (4), if we only assmne (1) th'~t the radiation is sent out in quanta 1,v, and (2) ttmt the frequency of the radiation emitted during the passing" of the system between successive stationary states will coincide with'the frequency of revolution of the electron in the region of slow vibrations.
From the above considerations it follows further that, with the approximation in question, 1 may be considered as a constant in the expressions on the right sides of (46), while for 2 , . From the above considerations it follows that the problem of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom in the presence of external electric and magnetic forces may be treated in a manner, which is exactly analogous to that applied in 2 in case of a periodic system exposed to a small external field of constant potential. From the above considerations it should be clear that the whole situation in atomic physics deprives of all meaning such inherent attributes as the idealizations of classical physics would ascribe to the object.
From the above considerations we shall therefore expect that, in addition to the main probabilities of such transitions between stationary states which are possible for the original system, there will for the perturbed system exist small probabilities of new transitions corresponding to the above mentioned combinations of the s. Consequently we shall expect that the effect of the perturbing field on the spectrum of the system will consist partly in a small displacement of the original lines, partly in the appearance of new lines of small intensity.
From the approximate constancy of during the motion, proved in 2, it follows therefore in the first place that, with neglect of small quantities of the same order of magnitude as the ratio between the external force and the attraction from the nucleus, the electrical centre will during the perturbations of the orbit remain in a fixed plane perpendicular to the direction of the external force. From the beginning, the attitude towards the apparent paradoxes in quantum theory was characterized by the emphasis on the features of wholeness in the elementary processes, connected with the quantum of action. From the beginning, the use of mathematics has been essential for the progress of the physical sciences.
From the circum- stance that certain substances in a non-luminous state, as, for instance, sodium vapour, absorb radiation corresponding to lines in the line-spectra of the substances, we may, on the other hand, conclude that the lines in question are emitted during the passing of the system between two states, one of which is the permanent state. From the considerations in 2 it follows further, that the total energy in the stationary states of the system in the presence of the field, with neglect of small quantities proportional to F 2 , will be equal to En + , where En is the energy of the hydrogen atom in its undisturbed stationary state.
From the considerations in 2 it follows now in the first place that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to the square of the external forces, = E + M will remain constant during the perturbations within a time interval, sufficiently long for the perturbing forces to produce a considerable change in the shape and position of the orbit of the electron; i. e. in a time interval of the same order as /, if , just as in 2, denotes a small quantity of the same order as the ratio between the external forces acting on the electron and the attraction from the nucleus.
From the considerations in the former sections it will therefore appear that the frequency calculated from the relations (1) and (13) for the radiation emitted during the transition between successive stationary states within each series will approach that to be expected on ordinary electrodynamics in the region of slow vibrations From (13) it follows that for high values of the configuration of the inner electrons possesses the same energy in all the series of stationary states corresponding to the same spectrum (11).
From the considerations on page 117 of the effect on the spectrum of a perturbed periodic system due to a second external field, the perturbing effect of which is small compared with that of the first, we may conclude, however, that, if the effect of one of the fields on the motion of the electron is large compared with that of the other, the hydrogen lines will still show a resolution in a number of components, the spectral widths of which are small compared with the displacements which they have undergone due to the presence of the weaker of the external fields. From the definition of it follows that this quantity in general will depend on 1 as well as on 2 , .
From the early days our close connection with the great centre in Cambridge was maintained especially by longer visits to Copenhagen of Darwin, Dirac, Fowler, Hartree, Mott, and others. From the fact that the frequency of the components of double lines can be expressed by a formula of the type (2), we may conclude, on the considerations of section 2 and 3, that the perturbing forces in question are of electrostatic and not of electromagnetic origin. From the figure it can be seen that when an atom has been transferred into the second state in the second row, in addition to the direct return to the normal state, there are still two other transitions which may give rise to radiation, namely the transitions to the second state in the first row and to the first state in the third row.
From the formula for it is seen that the frequency of revolution decreases as n increases, and that the n approaches the value 1. expression n+1 According to what has been said above, the frequency of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the (n + 1)th and the nth stationary state is given by 1 1 = Rc . From the necessary stability of the stationary states we must conclude that the perturbed system will possess a set of stationary states which only differ slightly from those of the original system. From the observa- tional point of view such limitations might be closely related to the restrictions imposed on space-time measurements by the atomic con- stitution of all apparatus.
From the one side the view has been expressed that such concepts, despite their evident fertility, would eventually prove superfluous. From the other side it has been argued that we have here to do with irreducible elements in any account of the display of life. From the outset it was evident that, on the basis of the Rutherford model, the typical stability of atomic systems could by no means be reconciled with classical principles of mechanics and electrodynamics.
From the point of view of perturbed systems, this would mean that the motion in the stationary states of the system in question, as fixed by (22), would certainly be stable for infinitely small disturbances, but that we should expect finite deviations from the motion in these states, already if the system was exposed to a second perturbing field, the intensity of which was only of the same order as the product of the external electric force with the ratio between this force and the attraction from the nucleus.
From the point of view of separation of variables, this degenerate character of the system is in the present case, in contrast to the analogous case of the Stark effect, also directly revealed by the fact, that a separation can be obtained, not only in polar coordinates, but in any set of axial elliptical coordinates for which one focus is placed at the nucleus and the other at some point on the axis of the field.
From the point of view of the principle of correspondence it is seen, however, that this apparent difficulty is explained by the occurrence in the motion of the hydrogen atom, as opposed to the motion of the oscillator, of harmonic components corresponding to values of , which are different from 1; or using a terminology well known from acoustics, there appear overtones in the motion of the hydrogen atom.
From the point of view of the quantum theory of line spectra, it will be seen that by means of considerations of this kind we may inversely obtain a certain amount of direct quantitative information as regards the probabilities of spontaneous transition between different sets of stationary states, holding also in the region where the integers characterising these states are not large and where consequently the estimate of the values of these probabilities, based on the formal relation between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation, gives results which are only of an approximative character.
From the point of view of the uncertainty principle he had acutely felt the diffi- culties of assuming the presence of particles as light as electrons 98 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE within the small spatial extensions of atomic nuclei. From the point of view of' the "mechanical" states we see, however, that the following assumption which is in accord with the above analogy might be able to account for the result of Ruther- ford's calculation and for the absence of equipartition of kinetic energy : two colliding electrons, bound or free, will, after the collision as well as before, be in mechanical states. From the point of view taken in the present paper, however, the above notation might in a more direct way indicate the content of the principle and the limits of its applicability.
From the point of view, as regards the principles of the quantum theory, taken in the present paper, a consideration of this kind, however, does not, as explained in Part I on page 47, afford a rational means of determining the a-priori probability of the stationary states of an atomic system. From the pomt of view taken here, just this sage would be very small as compared with the natural renunciation forms the necessary condition for an un- p rio _ ' seemed im ossible to recon- ambiguous definition of the energy of the atom. From the preceding argumentation it will . From the preceding considerations we are immediately led to the assumption that the " permanent" state is the one among the stationary states during the formation of which the greatest ,,moun+oof energy is emitted.
From the preceding considerations we may infer, by application of (1), that the complete spectrum emitted by the hydrogen atom will, besides the series spectrum and the continuous ultra-violet spectrum mentioned above, which corresponds to transitions from a state in which the electron is free to a stationary state characterised by n = 2 in (41), contain a set of continuous spectra, corresponding to transitions from free states to other stationary states, and each extending in the direction of larger frequencies from one of the values of the frequency, given by (35) if we put n0 = .
From the relation just mentioned between the quantum theory of line spectra and the ordinary theory of radiation, we shall therefore in the present case expect that, if the atom is not disturbed by external forces, only such transitions between stationary states will be possible, in which the plane of the orbit remains unaltered, and in which the number n2 in the conditions (16) decreases or increases by one unit; i. e. where the angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus decreases or increases by h/2.
From the relation under consideration, we shall further expect that there will be an intimate connection between the probability of a spontaneous transition of this type between two stationary states, for which n1 is equal to n01 and n001 respectively, and the intensity of the radiation of frequency (n01 n001 )1 2 , which on ordinary electrodynamics would be emitted by the atom in these states, and which would depend on the value C of the amplitude of the harmonic rotation, corresponding to = (n01 n001 ), which appears in the motion of the electron. From the replacement of by he deduced that the number of electrons in the ring was equal to 4.
From the results of experiments on scattering of alpha rays, Rutherford concluded that the charge on the nucleus corresponds to a number of electrons per atom approximately equal to half the atomic weight. From the tables on pages 2 and 25 we find for these products 91153 and 22779, and dividing the former by the latter we get 4.0016. From the taneous emission of radiation which even in the view advanced here, according to which the absence of external influences puts an upper limit foundation of space-time description is offered by to the lifetime of the stationary states. From the very beginning of his radioactive researches, Rutherford was acutely aware of the wide perspectives they opened in several directions.
From the very beginning the main point under debate has been the attitude to take to the departure from customary principles of natural philosophy characteristic of the novel development of physics which was initiated in the first year of this century by Planck's discovery of the universal quantum of action. From the very dawn of science, atomic theory has indeed been at the focus of interest in connection with the efforts to attain a comprehensive view of the great variety of natural phenomena. From the view advanced here, Gerlach experiment, so important for the investigation according to which the foundation of space-time de- of the properties of single atoms. From the viewpoint of the matrix theory a treat- Recently Klein (Zeits.
From the viewpoint of the matrix theory a treatment of analogous problems has been carried out 7. From these examples it will be seen that even if Kossels considerations will need modification in order to account in detail for the high frequency spectra, they seem to offer a basis for a further development.
From these results it follows that the motion of the electron in any stationary state of a hydrogen atom, which is exposed to a homogeneous magnetic field, willif we look apart from small quantities proportional to the square of the intensity of the magnetic force and to the product of this intensity with the ratio between the mass of the electron and that of the nucleusdiffer from the motion in some stationary state of the atom in the absence of the field, only by a superposed uniform rotation round an axis through the nucleus parallel to the magnetic force with a frequency given by (79).
From this disentanglement of the experimental observations, in which besides Sommerfeld and his students especially Smekal and Coster have taken part, we have obtained a nearly complete classification of the energy levels corresponding to the Xray spectra. From this it follows that the secular effect of the weaker field, with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 will be the same as if only the parallel component of this field was acting on the atom; and we see consequently that, in the stationary states of the atom in the presence of both fields, the possible cycles of shapes and positions of the orbit of the electron will be characterised in the same way as if the weaker field was parallel to the stronger.
From this period also dates an investigation by Bjerrum on infrared absorption bands, which, although it had no direct bearing on atomic structure, proved significant for the development of the quantum theory. From this point of view it seems therefore natural to assume that, with the approximation mentioned, the motion of an atomic system in the stationary states can be calculated by direct application of ordinary mechanics, not only under constant external conditions, but in general also during a slow and uniform variation of these conditions. From this point of view the spectra show the existence of certain, definite energy values corresponding to certain distinctive states of the atoms.
From this point of view we may regard the simple character of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom as intimately connected with the simple periodic character of this atom. From this point of view, for example, the green line H of the hydrogen spectrum which corresponds to a transition from the fourth to the second stationary state may be considered in a certain sense to be an octave of the red line H , corresponding to a transition from the third to the second state, even though the frequency of the first line is by no means twice as great as that of the latter. From this point of view, the whole purpose of the formalism of quantum theory is to derive expectations for observations obtained under given experimental conditions.
From this we get for the frequency of revolution 1 /e(E-es.) From this we shall expect the appearance in the spectrum of a number of new weak components, corresponding to a type of transition between stationary states which would not be possible if the two external fields were parallel to each other. From various sides concern has been expressed with the widespread con- fusion arising from the apparently divergent approaches taken by humanists and scientists to human problems, and in this connection there has even been talk about a cultural rift in modern society.
From what has been said previously we may assume that the final result of the process of binding of the first electron in any atom will be a stationary state, where the energy of the atom is given by (5), if we put n = 1, or more precisely by formula (11), if we put n = 1 and k = 1. Fruit, for example, is alive, consuming Tt was not until the eighteenth century that the oxygen and giving off carbon dioxide and heat. Further characteristic differences appearwhen the specific quantum statistics of identica1 particles are taken into account. Further confirmation of this view of the process of absorption is given by experiments on resonance radiation.
Further consideration of this particular question requires, however, a comparison between the nature and firmness of the electronic configurations of other atoms, and it can therefore not be discussed at the moment. Further consideration shows that it is necessary to consider not only the forces which originate from the inner electrons but also to consider the effect of the presence of the outer electron upon the motion of the inner electrons. Further consideration shows, however, that such an expectation would not be justified. Further consideration shows, however, that under the usual conditions of excitation those groups have by far the greatest probability for which the motion of the inner electrons corresponds to the normal state of the inner system, i.e.
Further evidence of the fruitfulness of the approach was derived from the application of the correspondence principle to the radiation emitted by multiperiodic systems, permitting qualitative conclusions regarding the relative probabilities for the different transition pro- cesses. Further experiments have shown that the phenomenon is even more complex than was at first expected. Further he proves that the change in the firmness of binding of the electrons in the outer groups in the elements of the family of the rare earths shows a dependence on the atomic number which strongly supports the assumption that in these elements a completion of an inner group of 4quanta orbits takes place.
Further information on the frequency of the radiation may be obtained by comparing calculations of the energy radiation in the region of slow vibrations based on the above assumptions with calculations based on the ordinary mechanics. Further it was found that, if in formula (35) for the hydrogen spectrum the constant K is replaced by a constant which is four times larger, this formula represents to a high degree of approximation the frequencies of the lines of a spectrum emitted by helium, when this gas is subject to a condensed discharge. Further the average value of the kinetic energy of Plancks resonator is equal to its potential energy, so that the average value of the kinetic energy of the resonator, according to Planck, is equal to 21 nh.
Further the concordant results obtained from calculations based on experiments as different as the diffuse scattering of Xrays and the decrease in velocity of rays in passing through matter render the conclusion extremely likely that a hydrogen atom contains only a single electron. Further the energy required to transfer the inner system from its normal state to another stationary state is in general very large compared with the energy which is necessary to transfer an electron from the normal state of the neutral atom to a stationary orbit of greater dimensions.
Further the stationary states will also in the relativity case be fixed by (22), if the system is conditionally periodic and allows of separation of variables; while the stationary states of a perturbed periodic system, also in the relativity case, will be characterised by the conditions (67), if the secular perturbations are of conditionally periodic type. Further there will, in the motion of the perturbed atom, also appear a number of circular harmonic rotations perpendicular to the stronger field, the amplitudes of which are small quantities proportional to , and the frequencies of which are of the type | P +t1 v1 +2v2 |.
Further, J. Nicholson had in 1912 made use of quantized angular momenta in his search for the origin of certain lines in the spectra of stellar nebulae and the solar corona. Further, J. Nicholson had in 1912 made use of quantized angular" "momenta in his search for the origin of certain lines in the spectra of stellar nebulae and the solar corona. Further, Schr6d- Phenomena along the line of the classical theories. Further, according to the calculation of Nicholson, the systems are unstable for some modes of vibration.
Further, if we consider any molecular process, the result seems always to be that after a certain amount of energy characteristic for the systems in question is radiated out, the systems will again settle down in a stable state of equilibrium, in which the distances apart of the particles are of the same order of magnitude as before the process. Further, it follows from the principle of conservation of energy, that 1 + will remain constant during the motion, and that consequently during the perturbations 1 will change only by small quantities of the same order as 1 , where denotes a small constant of the same order of magnitude as the ratio between the external forces and the internal forces of the system.
Further, it is known from ex]2e- riments on positive rays, that hydrogen atoms can acquire a negative charge ; therefore the presence of hydrogen in the experiments of J~'owler may effect that more electrons are removed from some of the helium atoms than would be the ease if only helium were present. Further, it will appear from the considerations of the next section that the large diameter of the orbits offers an explanation of the surprisingly great magnitude of the Stark effect. Further, our insight into the enzymatic processes by which this information serves to direct the formation of other specific molecular structures, such as the proteins, is steadily increasing. Further, reasons are given for a principal hypothesis on which the PART I.
Further, striking evidence was afforded of the independence that, according to the postulates, must be attributed to the processes which give rise to the emission of the different spectral lines of an element. Further, the incompatibility of alocalization of field energy with afixation of the nirmber of field quanta would seem essentially to restrict the particle concept to regions larger than the field range whichfor mesonsis comparablewith r,,. Further, the laws of X-ray spectra provide a confirmation of the general theoretical conceptions, both with regard to the constitution of the atom and the ideas that have served as a basis for the interpretation of spectra.
Further, the nucleus is assumed to be the seat of the essential part of the mass of the atom, and to have linear dimensions ex- ceedingly small compared with the linear dimensions of the whole atom. Further, the objection as to the emission of the radiation in quanta will not have reference to the calculations in question~ if we assmne that in the coronal spectrum we are not dealing with a true emission but only with a scattering of radiation. Further, the recent experiments by Paschen and Back on the magnetic effect on double lines, which will be mentioned in the next section, indicate that the complicated types of Zeeman effect are intimately connected with complication of structure in the undisplaced lines.
Further, there may be stationary configurations of a system urn electrons and a nucleus of charge E in which all the electrons are not arranged in a single ring. Further, there will be perfect continuity hetwcen the two kinds o[ states, as the difference between of Atoms and Molecules. Further, this principle enables us not only to exclude certain transitions as being impossibleand can from this point of view be considered as a selection principlebut it also enables us to draw conclusions about the relative probabilities of the various possible types of transitions from the values of the amplitudes of the harmonic components.
Further, with reference to this relationand remembering that on ordinary electrodynamics the magnetic field will not directly influence the exchange of energy during a process of radiation, since the forces due to this field, being always perpendicular to the direction of the velocity, will not perform work on the moving electronit seems also natural to assume that it is possible, simply from the effect of the superposed rotation on the kinetic energy of the electron, to determine the effect of the magnetic field, as regards the differences between the values of the energy in the different stationary states of the atom.
Furthermore in the calculation of the work corresponding to the energy levels we must take account not only of the interaction between, the electrons in the normal state of the atom, but also of the changes in the configuration and interaction of the remaining electrons, which establish themselves automatically without emission of radiation during the removal of the electron. Furthermore, Einstein emphasized another consequence of Planck's results, namely, that radiant energy could only be emitted or absorbed by the oscillating particle in so-called of radiation", the magnitude of each of which was equal to Planck's constant multiplied by the frequency. Furthermore, I get to think about my own thoughts of the situation in which I find myself.
Furthermore, an application extinguish each other by interference at the of the conservation laws to the process implies space-time boundary of the wave-field. Furthermore, an application of the con a general definition of these concepts we are confined to servation laws to the process implies that the accuracy the conservation laws, the rational formulation of which of definition of the energy-momentum vector is the same has been a fundamental problem for the symbolical for the radiation and the electron. Furthermore, the number of the quantum postulate and open the way for a complete nodes in the various characteristic vibrations gives a dECQ'Dtion of atomic phenomena along the line of the simple interpretation to the concept Of quantum number classical theories.
Furthermore, the preparation of medicaments and the study of their effects were to prove of essential importance for the progress of chemistry. Furthermore, the quantum-theory condition entering in the last postulate affords a starting-point for the interpretation of the laws of series spectra. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF THE QUANTUM THEORY OF SPECTRA. Geiger, at Rutherford suggestion, carried out measurements of the magnitude of this effect. General Considerations continued. General Information About Project GutenbergTM electronic works Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project GutenbergTM concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project GutenbergTM electronic works 1.A.
General surveys of the rapidly increasing experimental evidence about the magnetic properties of matter were given in reports by Cabrera and Weiss, who discussed the equation of state of ferro- magnetic materials, comprising the abrupt changes of the properties of such substances at definite temperatures like the Curie point. General work goes well, but I am held up momentarily by finding that the mass of the a-particle comes out rather bigger than it ought to be. Geography 125/130; history 125/130; English 130/140, arithmetic 200/200. Gradually Rutherford sorted out the phenomena, all products seemed to have characteristic half-life periods, some emitted a-rays, some 4-rays and some seemed to be rayless but produced other products which were active.
Great interest is to be attributed to this atom-model; for, as Rutherford has shown, the assumption of the existence of nuclei, as those in question, seems to be necessary in order to account for the results of the experiments on large anglo scaf~tering of the a rays :~. Great local interest had arisen and when the day of examination arrived, a hot summer day, interested residents would present themselves at the open door at the schoolroom and in an anxious whisper ask the supervisor as to how the pride of the school was progressing. Great progress both as regards general outlook and experimental technique was initiated in 1933 by the discovery by Frederic Joliot and Irene Curie of so-called artificial p-radioactivity produced by nuclear transmutations initiated by a-ray bombardment.
Great though Faraday's output of work was, it seems to me that to match Rutherford's work in quantity, as well as in quality, we must go back to Newton. HIS revision of the foundations of mechanics, instrument. Hahn goes on to recall examples of Rutherford's natural jolly disposition and states 'This joyous youthful naturalness was one of the qualities that rendered intercourse with Rutherford such a pleasure'. Hahn proceeds to recall that even in 1906-7 chemists in Germany as elsewhere had not fully recognized the importance of the atomic disintegration theory and tells of other suggested explanations advanced at a symposium in Berlin.
Has been a pleasure for me to accept the invitation from the Physical Society "to contribute to the series of Rutherford Memorial Lectures in which, through the years, several of Rutherford's closest collaborators have commented on" his fundamental scientific achievements and communicated reminiscences about "his great human personality. Having assumed the atoms to be systems of particles governed by electrostatic forces, we may consider the presence of the field simply as a complication of the original system; but on the interpretation given in the former section of the general principle of Ritz of combination of spectral lines, we may expect that the relation (1) will hold for every system of electrified particles.
Having been with them both so shortly before and found Rutherford in full vigour and in the same high spirits as always, it was under tragic cir- cumstances, indeed, that I met Mary Rutherford again. Having been with them both so shortly before and found Rutherford in full vigour and in the same high spirits as always, it was under tragic circumstances, indeed, that Imet Mary Rutherford again. Having investigated the emission and absorption of a body at all temperatures, and for rays of all wave lengths, it is possible, as Kirchhoff has shown, to determine immediately the laws of temperature radiation. He also calculates that the Zeeman effect should vary from line to line in a manner inconsistent with experiment.
He also commented humorously on the lively disputes in the Cavendish Laboratory about the relative merits of different atomic models to which Aston's discovery gave rise. He also entered into correspondence with a college friend who had gone to Edinburgh and with a view to entering on a medical course there on easy financial terms-there were few postgraduate scholarships in those days. He also later obtained or confirmed evidence of the production of other medium atomic number elements e.g. He also pointed out how the alteration observed by Zeeman in the spectral lines corresponded exactly to the alteration in the motion of the vibrating electron which one would expect to be produced by the magnetic field.
He assumes that a line in the Xray spectrum is due to a process which may be described as follows: an electron is removed from the atom by some external action after which an electron in one of the other groups takes its place; this exchange of place may occur in as many ways as there are groups of more loosely bound electrons. He assumes that the outer electron in the states corresponding to the S termsin contrast to those corresponding to the P and D termspenetrates partly into the region of the orbits of the inner electrons during the course of its revolution. He attracted a band of research workers from almost every country in Europe, those obtaining most fame being probably Niels Bohr and Moseley.
He calculated the emissive as well as the absorptive power of a metal for long wave lengths, using the same assumptions about the motions of the electrons in the metal that Drude (1900) employed in his calculation of the ratio of the electrical and thermal conductivities. He conceived the orbits as not varying continuously but having stationary states. He conceives the atom to possess a cellular structure, so that each electron is in advance assigned a place in a cell and these cells are arranged in shells in such a manner, that the various shells from the nucleus of the atom outward contain exactly the same number of places as the periods in the periodic system proceeding in the direction of increasing atomic number.
He considers now the radiation which results from the removal of an electron from one of the rings, assuming that the radiation is emitted when the atom settles down in its original state. He consolidated the wider frontier opened up by his discovery of artificial disintegration and his brilliant team kept in the van of progress until practical use of atomic energy was on the horizon, although of course this was not the conscious aim of the work. He could 'flash fire' on occasions when annoyed or thwarted but he soon calmed down and never showed malice. He demonstrated the use of wireless, his old love, from trains and even took part in investigations of vibrations in buildings produced by nearby trains.
He directed attention to the fact that the rotation of the molecules in a gas might be investigated by means of the changes in certain absorption lines with temperature. He drew favourable notice to himself by detecting wireless signals up to a distance of 2 miles and describing his results at the British Associa- tion in the following year and publishing later in the Transactions of the Royal Society (A, 189, 1. He emphasized how a configuration of this kind leads to instructive models of the molecular structure of chemical combinations. He enjoyed reading, music, and photography. He entered into the full life and games of the school in every way.
He felt that some of his remarks from that time had not always been properly interpreted, and he was anxious to give an account of his views as they had developed since then, in particular under the stimulation of the great new discoveries in the field of molecular biology, which he had followed with such enthusiasm. He fixed the motion of the external electron by means of his general theory for the fixation of the stationary states of a central motion. He found that expressed in terms of per atom traversed the most probable angle of scattering was very small but was proportional roughly to the square root of the atomic weight of the atoms traversed. He further considered the possibility that the duplication process is intimately associated with the transfer of information from DNA.
He had already planned his work at Montreal. He had decided to work under Professor J. J. Thomson at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, and in the meantinme had studied all J. He had started this work in Gottingen and dis- cussed it with Houtermans and Atkinson, with the result that the latter were led to suggest that the source of solar energy might be traced to nuclear transmutations induced by impact of protons with the great thermal velocities which, according to Eddington's ideas, were to be expected in the interior of the sun.
He had the intuition to try out the experiment in oxygen and nitrogen separately and the crowning achievement was the observation that in the case of collisions of an a-particle with a nitrogen nucleus the latter was transformed and a hydrogen nucleus ejected at great speed. He has at the same time directed attention to a possible type of motion of very marked symmetry in which the electrons during their entire revolution assume symmetrical positions with reference to a fixed axis. He has introduced assumptions about the relations between the numbers of electrons in the various groups of the atom and the lengths of the periods in the periodic system which exhibit certain formal similarities with the results presented here. He identified radium F with Mme Curie's polonium.
He interpret the regularities of spectra on the basis remarks on that occasion that even in the case of of our ideas about the structure of the atom. He joined the military cadets and also played rugby as a forward. He left a manuscript which he had prepared as a basis for the lecture in Cologneand in which his views on the relationship between physics and biology are expounded in somewhat greater detail than in his earlier articles. He made observations with uranium and obtained four distinct radioactive products and was at first led to believe that in neutron capture followed by emission of fl-particles, certain of what he called transuranic elements had been formed bu only a short life.
He made the important observation that the electric current between two parallel metal plates in air traversed by X-rays increases as the distance apart of the plates was decreased, contrary to the ordinary application of Ohm's law to solids and liquids. He married in 1866 Martha Thompson, who, with her young widowed mother, had emigrated from Hornchurch, Essex on the death of her husband who was said to have been an able arithmetician. He pointed out quantitatively the influence of radioactive considerations in questions of geological and terrestrial history. He pondered over these remarkable results for several weeks. He presented his thesis with an application for the 1851 Exhibition Scholarship.
He presented the whole story complete to the Royal Society in his 1903 Bakerian lecture which is a classic (Phil. He progressed satisfactorily through the primary school standards until the family moved when he was eleven years old to the small seaside village of Havelock where the father set up a timber mill and also machinery for decortication of New Zealand native flax (Phormium tenax). He remarks on that the main stress has to be laid on the formulation of that occasion that even in the case of macrosc0pic phe- the laws governing the interaction between the objects nomena we may say, in a certain sense, that they are which we symbolize by the abstractions of isolated created by repeated observations.
He returned for a fifth year to qualify for a science degree and started on research investigations of the magnetization of iron by high-frequency discharges from a Tesla coil; work in which he could have received little theoretical guidance other than stimulating enthusiasm from his professor. He rode to his tasks on a wooden bicycle of his own construction. He showed considerable ingenuity in devising home-made apparatus for his measurements and established that such high-frequency damped oscillations could magnetize thin steel wire so that the arrangement could be used for detecting Hertzian or wireless waves across the 60 ft. iron shed in which he worked.
He shows that various lines, which find no place in the classification hitherto considered, can be ascribed in a natural manner to processes of reorganization, initiated by the removal of more than one electron from the atom; these lines are therefore in a certain sense analogous to the enhanced lines in the optical spectra. He shows, however, how it is possible from the above general assumptions, by means of Boltzmanns principle on the relation between entropy and probability and Wiens well known displacement-law, to deduce a formula for the temperature radiation which apart from an undetermined constant factor coincides with Plancks, if we only assume that the frequency corresponding to the transition between the two states is determined by (1).
He stressed that it ought to be obvious that the position of the moon in its orbit around the earth can be determined, whereas, according to matrix mechanics, every state of a two-body system with well-defined energy allows only statistical expectations concerning the kinematical quantities in question. He succeeded in observing one of the lines in very pure helium; there was, at any rate, not enough hydrogen present to enable the hydrogen lines to be observed. He supposes the emission of the orthohelium spectrum to be due to transitions between stationary states where both electrons move in the same plane and revolve in the same sense.
He therefore grasped the discovery of the neutron as foundation for the view of considering only neutrons and protons as proper nuclear constituents, and on this basis developed explanations of many properties of nuclei. He therefore proposed the explanation of the formula (14), that the line was emitted during a transition of the innermost ring between two states in which the angular momentum of each electron was equal to and respectively. He told of the rivalry between the various country schools, each ambitious to have one of its pupils gain the coveted award. He travelled by a ship which called at Australian ports.
He visited the university physics departments there and at Adelaide he met Professor, afterwards Sir William H. Bragg, thus inaugurating a friendship which became closer as they advanced in years. He was a healthy, happy, merry and some- what boisterous lad who in his spare time from school and home chores including milking the family cow, roamed the countryside snaring pigeons and fishing. He was a lively boy and I loved to see him and the other children at their mother's knee at prayer'. He was ever ready to give lectures to various educational organizations. He was fortunate also in obtaining the loan of a large amount of radium, 450 mg, from the Vienna Academy which was used to supply emanation and active deposit for use in the various experiments.
He was fortunate in that Schuster had bequeathed to him a most able experimental assistant, Hans Geiger, who was to collaborate with him later in such important work and who gave his name to the well-known Geiger counter. He was liked by all his fellow students, was ever ready to assist and be assisted by them, and he took a full part in the activities of College societies, becoming secretary of the College scientific society where a wide variety of subjects was discussed. He was mechanically minded, tinkering with clocks and water-wheels. He was placed in the Vth form because of his prior knowledge of Latin. He would also have wished to express his appreciation of the effective help of Mrs S. Hellmann.
He wrote as follows (McGill University News, April I904) 'We paid one visit to the Physical Society. He wrote monumental books on the whole subject of radioactivity. He wrote to his fiancee regarding the vacation period in the following year 'Am I to go to New Zealand to fetch you to look after me and become Mrs Professor, or am I to wait another year to get enough cash to do it in style?' He,'e I shall ouly try to show how, by help of the theory, it can be simply explained that the constant K entering in Rydberg's formula is the same for all substances. Heisenberg and Kramers immediately took up a close collabora- tion which resulted in an extension of the dispersion theory.
Heisenberg him- selfwas led directly to an understanding of ferromagnetism, and soon came the clarification of the homopolar chemical bonds by Heitler and London, as well as Dennison's solution of the old riddle of the specific heat of hydrogen. Heisenberg's deep-going investigation of these problems found expression in the famous paper "The Visualizable Content of the Kinematics and Mechanics of Quantum Theory", which appeared towards the end of his stay in j8 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE Copenhagen and in which the indeterminacy relations were formulated for the first time. Hence by equation (I) the phase velocity is cz/Iv and the group-velocity 1).
Hence by see, indispensable for a description of experi- equation (1) the phase velocityis */v and the group- ence in connexion with our ordinary space-time velocity v. The circumstance that the former is view. Hence in order to initiate this explosion the only known method is to use the centre of an exploding uranium bomb. Hence, is nob accessible to observation.
Here again the quantum theory offered a clue for the elucidation of the situation and especially it was found possible to account for the atomic stability, as well as for the empirical laws governing the spectra of the elements, by assuming that any reaction of the atom resulting in a change of its energy involved a complete transition between two so-called stationary quantum states and that, in particular, the spectra were emitted by a step-like process in which each transition is accompanied by the emission of a monochromatic light quantum of an energy just equal to that of an Einstein photon. Here it appears that the stand for an open world, with unhampered opportunities for common enlightenment and mutual understanding, must form the background for such an issue.
Here the com- An important contribution to the problem of a Plementary character of the description appears, consistent application of these methods has been since the use of wave-groups is necessarily accom- made lately by Heisenberg (Zeitschr. Here the difference the use of the quantum postulate in problems between classical mechanics and the quantum concerning atomic structure. Here the generaliza- already mentioned, constantly keep the possibilitie_of tion of the symbolical method made by Dirac and Jordan definition as well as of observation before the mind. Here the period of vibration and wave-length refer to a plane complementary character of the descri tio 3, harmonic wave train of unlimited extent in space apd ting.
Here the should only demand inner consistency, in which con- negative value of the energy is regarded as conjugated to ction s eci aid to the ossibilities the time. Here this postulate does indeed of formula (1) are much less favourable. Here too In measuring momentum with the aid of the Doppler the product of the inaccuracies in the measuremeht of effectflwith due regard to the Compton effectone will position and momentum is thus given by the gener al employ a parallel wave-train. Here was that rarest and most refreshing spectacle-the pure ardour of the chase, a man quite possessed by a noble work and altogether happy in it.' Here we meet conditions which in some respects are analogous to those connected with the binding of the 7th electron.
Here, however, already the defi nition of state requires special consideration and it need hardly be recalled that an adequate analysis of mechanical phenomena was possible only after the recognition that, in the account of a state of a system of bodies, not merely their location at a given moment but also their velocities have to be included. Here, it must above all be recognized that, however far quan tum effects transcend the scope of classical physical analysis, the account of the experimental arrangement and the record of the observations must always be expressed in common language supplemented with the terminology of classicalphysics.
Here, it must be taken into consideration that the position and the motion of the diaphragm and the shutter have so far been assumed to be accurately co-ordinated with the space-time reference frame. Here, the complementary description offers indeed the adequate approach to the problem of atomic stability with which we were faced from the very beginning. Here, the crucial point is that any guarantee that the progress of science is used only to the benefit of man- kind presupposes the same attitude as is required for cooperation between nations in all domains of culture.
Here, the limit for the direct applicability of field concepts should, from similar arguments, lie comparatively higher than for electrons but, still, due to the large nucleon mass, considerably lower than yo, as itis also assumed in all theories of nuclear constitution,where the nucleons are treated as mass points subjected to the forces derived from simplelinear meson fields. Here, too, the product of the [lel light, 80 that the momentum h/A of the inaccuracies in the measurement of position and incident light quantum is known both as regards momentum is thus given by the genemr formula (2). Hereby the negative value of the energy important for the further development, has been is regarded as conjugated to the time.
His brother was R. C. Maclaurin who was later one of a band of close personal friends at Cambridge, another being de Villiers of South Africa. His conclusions are equivalent with those obtained above. His early life is interwoven with the epic story of the early colonization of New Zealand, for the Nelson province had been found and founded only 29 years earlier, his father as a young boy and his grandparents having arrived from Perthshire in one of the first small sailing ships conveying the settlers.
His eldest brother George had won this scholarship some years previously and although he had attended Nelson College for a period, according to a statement made by his mother on an occasion later, the family finances were such that he could not be spared to stay at the College for a period necessary to prepare for presenting himself for a University Entrance Scholarship. His enthusiasm and abounding energy infected us all and it was the rule rather than the exception to work at the laboratory after dinner. His great friend 'Boltwood at Yale had established the constant ratio of the quantities of these elements in radioactive minerals as was predicted by the disintegration theory. His later investigations on the series spectra have led him, however, definitely to abandon this assumption.
His lectures in the following academic year were appreciated by the students not only for their content but also for Heisenberg's perfect command of the Danish language. His lucid exposition was, in fact, the first public expression of serious interest in considerations which out- side the Manchester group were generally received with much scepticism. His next result was the discovery that uranium emitted two kinds of radiation, one very easily absorbed and with limited range which he called ac and one fully a thousand times more penetrating which he named ,. His only child Eileen was born in 1901. His results concerning this point confirm in detail the predictions of the theory.
His secondary schooling was liberal; broad and not unduly specialized, although mathematics was his strong subject. His success enabled him to enter Canterbury College in February 1890 at the age of 18- years so that he was reasonably mature. His thesis was a valuable contribution to the cyanide process for gold extraction. His view was based on the vith the individuals. His view was t' o-ordinates of the art smal. His wits were sharpened by the interplay and repartee of the rest of the lively family. Hitherto it was impossible to disentangle the spark spectra in the same way as the arc spectra.
Hittorf & Goldstein in turn found that with further exhaustion the glow separates out from the cathode as indeed Faraday had noticed and a dark space appears which was found to be traversed by the so-called cathode rays which could cast shadows as a luminescent pattern on the walls of the tube. How could the fleet-footed hero ever catch up with and pass the slow reptile if it were given even the smallest handicap? How much the above considerations differ from an inter- pretation based on the ordinary electrodynamics is perhaps most clearly shown by the fact that we have been forced to assume that a system of electrons will absorb a radiation of a frequency different from the frequency of vibration of the electrons calculated in the ordinary way.
How- ever, by closer consideration the apparent paradox found its solution in the influence of a gravitational field on the timing of a clock, by which Einstein himself had early predicted the red-shift in the spectral distribution of light emitted by heavy celestial systems. However Ernest was a quick worker and he had time at the end to look over his answers and he duly discovered and rectified the error with the result that he won the scholar- ship with record marks. However Mr C. H. Broad who was a classmate and later became headmaster of the school has stated 'What always struck me most about him was his extraordinary powers of concentration even in the midst of turmoil'.
However contrasting such phenomena may at first are complementary in the sense appear, it must be realized that they that taken together they exhaust all information about the atomic object which can be expressed in common language without ambiguity. However great the difficulties of liberation from the medieval world view were felt at that time, the fruits of the so-called Scientific Revolu- tion are certainly now a part of the common cultural background. However in the meantime Maclaurin had married and accepted a post as New Zealand Government analyst and was unable to take up the scholarship, which was then offered to and accepted by Rutherford.
However it has not been possible to develop a theory which reconciles in a satisfactory way Sommerfelds work on the fine structure of the Xray lines with Kossels general scheme. However vague such considerations must necessarily be, they maystill serveto illustrate how closely the constant 01, which plays such a fundamental part in atomictheory, appears correlated with the other non-dimensional constants like the ratios between the electron, meson and nucleon masses, as has been so often suggested.
However, I rapidly became absorbed in the general theoretical implications of the new atomic model and especially in the possibility it offered of a sharp distinction as regards the physical and chemical properties of matter, between those directly originating in the atomic nucleus itself and those primarily depending on the distribution of the electrons bound to it at distances very large compared with nuclear dimensions.
However, I rapidly became absorbed in the general theoretical implications of the new atomic model and especially in the possibility it offered of a sharp distinction as regards the physical and chemical properties of matter, between those directly originating in the atomic nucleus itself and those primarily depending on the distribution of the electrons bound to it at distances very large compared with nuclear dimensions." However, I shall not further discuss the systematic form in which these authors have presented their results. However, a simple interpretation may be obtained of the fact that in every series approaches unity for large values of.
However, a still further revision of the problem of observation has since been made necessary by the discovery of the universal quantum of action, which has taught us that the whole mode of description of classical physics, including the theory of relativity, retains its adequacy only as long as all quantities of action entering into the description are large compared to Planck's quantum. However, a wholly new situation in physical science was created through the discovery of.
However, after various THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 37 attempts to apply quantum ideas in a more consistent manner, it struck me in the early spring of 1913 that a clue to the problem of atomic stability directly applicable to the Rutherford atom was offered by the remarkably simple laws governing the optical spectra of the elements. However, as soon as we want to know the momentum and energy of these parts of the measuring arrangement with an accuracy sufficient to control the momentum and energy exchange with the particle under investigation, we shall, in accordance with the general indeterminacy relations, lose the possibility of their accurate location in space and time.
However, by the reception of sense impressions on which we act at the moment or later, some irreversible modification occurs in the nervous system, resulting in a new adjustment. However, contrary to the conclusions of the present paper, Warburg concludes that it does not seem possible on the theory to account in detail for the experimental results. However, for the action of nuclear combination to take place the hydrogen or hydrogen isotope nuclei must bombard each other with such speeds that the repellent electric forces are overcome. However, he was always aware of the responsibility connected with any increase in our knowledge and abilities. However, he was always aware of the responsibility connected with any mcrease in our knowledge and abilities.
However, if you provide access to or distribute copies of a Project GutenbergTM work in a format other than Plain Vanilla ASCII or other format used in the official version posted on the official Project GutenbergTM website (www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original Plain Vanilla ASCII or other form. However, in a quantitative comparison with the measurements we meet with the difficulties mentioned in the first section of applying assumptions analogous with and to systems for which ordinary mechanics do not lead to periodic orbits.
However, in the actual experiments of large angle scattering of fast oc-rays by heavy nuclei, from which Rutherford drew his fundamental conclusions, we are well within the range of validity of classical mechanics. However, in the limiting case of transitions between states for which the values of the quantum number n are large compared with their difference, it could be shown that the frequencies of the components of the radiation, appearing as the result of the random individual transition processes, coincide asymptotically with those of the harmonic components of the electron motion. However, in this connexion, I should which constitutes the living being.
However, it has not been possible directly to confirm this expectation, because only a few elements are known in the beginning of the 7th period. However, it is known that it is possible on the latter theory to account satisfactorily for the phenomena of radiation in the region of slow vibrations. However, it is most important to realize that the recourse to probability laws under such circumstances is essentially different in aim from the familiar application of statistical considerations as practical means of accounting for the properties of mechanical systems of great structural complexity.
However, owing to the circumstance that orbits in the on Newtonian mechanics every orbit in this case is simply periodic, with a frequency of revolution depending only on the total energy of the system, no physical effects were disclosed. However, shortly afterwards, he became ill, and although he was well on his way to recovery and had resumed work on the article, it was not completed when he died, sud- denly, on November i8th, 1962.
However, the Pickering and Fowler lines could not be included in the Rydberg formula for the hydrogen spectrum, unless the number n in the expression for the spectral terms were allowed to take half integrals as well as integral values; but this assumption would evi- dently destroy the asymptotic approach to the classical relationship between energy and spectral frequencies. However, the feature of individuality in atomic processes, represented by the universal quantum of action, im- plies that inquantum physics this interaction is an integral part of the phenomena, for which no separate account can be given if the instru- ments shall serve their purpose of defining the experimental arrange- ment and the recording of the observations.
However, the gradual development of an appropriate terminology for the description of the simpler situation in physical science indicates that we are not dealing with more or less vague analogies, but with clear examples of logical relations which, in differ- ent contexts, are met with in wider fields.
However, the possibilities of penetration of particles through potential barriers was soon recognized as a con- sequence of wave mechanics, and in 1928 Gamow, working in Got~ tingen, as well as Condon and Gurney in Princeton, gave on this basis a general explanation of a-decay and even a detailed account of the relationship between the lifetime of the nucleus and the kinetic energy of the emitted a-particles, in conformity with the empirical regularities found by Geiger and Nuttall in the early Manchester days. However, the problem came to a climax through the observation by Bothe and the Joliot-Curies of a penetrating radiation resulting from the bom- bardment of beryllium by a-particles.
However, the surprise that it proved im- possible even by the most refined measurements to ascertain, in laboratory experiments, any eifect of the orbital motion of the earth around the sun, revealed that the shape of rigid bodies and their mutual distances would be differently perceived by observers swiftly moving relative to each other, and that even events, which by one observer would be judged by another could be reckoned as as simultaneous, occurring at different moments. However, the treatment remained semi-empirical in the sense that there was still no self-con- tained basis for the derivation of the spectral terms of atoms or their reaction probabilities.
However, the whole history of organic evolution presents us with the results of the trying out in nature of the immense possibilities of atomic inter- actions. However, to make it possible for nations to benefit from the experience of others and to avoid mutual misunderstanding of intentions, free access to information and unhampered opportunity for exchange of ideas must be granted everywhere. Humanity will, therefore, be confronted with dangers of unprecedented character unless, in due time, measurLvs can be taken to forestall a disastrous competition in sukh formidable armaments and to establish an inteqnational control of the manufacture and use of the powerful materials. Hydrogen and helium, as seen in the survey of the periodic system given in fig.
Hydrogen possesses not only the smallest atomic weight of all the elements, but it also occupies a peculiar position both with regard to its physical and its chemical properties. Hydrogen spectrum and Xray spectra. I I 2 Niels Bohv With respect to the properties of elementary particles, the idea of point charges underlying the present quantum mechanicalformalism is in the first placejustified by the large size of atomic systems comparedwith r,,, which again dependsonthe smallness of the non-dimensional constant a=e2/lic ...... (2) expressing the relationship between the quantum of electric charge and the quantum of action. I also hardly need to emphasize how much this development has contributed to the general philosophical clarification of the presuppositions underlying human knowledge.
I also wish to mention the important contribution made by Ehrenfest to this subject on the limitations of the applicability of the laws of mechanics to atomic processes. I am afraid that the short indications to which I have been obliged to restrict myself with respect to the last and many other points of this lecture will remind you only too well that in the last resort the direct use of any word must stand in a complementary relationship to an analysis of its meaning. I am also trying to break up the atom by this method. I am coming to the end of my story. I am detecting and counting the lighter atoms set in motion by a-particles, and the results, I think, throw a good deal of light on the character and distribution of forces near the nucleus.
I am far from sharing, however, the widespread opinion that the recent development in the field of atomic physics could directly help us in deciding such questions as "mechanism or vitalism" and "free will or causal necessity" in favor of the one or the other alternative. I am glad to hear that you are coming over to England later and we shall be very glad to see you when you come to Manchester.
I am indebted to Prof. Rud Nielsen and Dr Urquhart for their valuable help in preparing the present English translation, and to the Syndics of the Cambridge Uni- versity Press for their kind interest in this edition, as well as for their courtesy in arranging for this volume to be followed by another containing a number of later essays on the same subject, in which the general point of view is further developed. I am sure you will be much interested in these new results which we hope to extend in the near future. I am very pleased that the energy and expense in getting high potentials has been rewarded by definite and interesting results. I am very pleased to hear that you regard the Neutron with favour.
I appreciate it has been more of the nature of a history than the announcement of some new sensational facts of discovery. I become confused and feel a dizziness as if I were looking down into a bottomless abyss, and my ponderings result finally in a terrible headache. I believe that in the radioactive elements we have a process of disintegration or transformation going on which is the source of the energy dissipated in radioactivity.' I can best describe the spirit of the work by quoting from Hahn's reminiscences (New atoms- Otto Hahn).
I cannot on this occasion give a survey of the scientific developments that have led to this result; I will only recall the discovery of the electron towards the close of the last century, which furnished the direct verification and led to a conclusive formulation of the conception of the atomic nature of electricity which had evolved since the discovery by Faraday of the fundamental laws of electrolysis and Berzelius's electrochemical theory, and had its greatest triumph in the electrolytic dissociation theory of Arrhenius. I cannot resist recalling the happenings at a village evening meeting in his honour when I accompanied him on a visit to the district in 1925, 39 years after the examination.
I do agree however with the scientific historian Dingle, and this is the excuse for what I have tried to say to-night, that we ought to survey broadly and historically the change that has come about so that we can understand it and, by understanding it, hope again to achieve the mastery of our own accomplishments. I do not know at which "I" to stop as the actual, and in the moment I stop at one, there is indeed again an "I" which stops at it. I do not know if you appreciate the fact that long papers have a way of frightening readers, who feel that they have not time to dip into them. I even think that I think of it, and divide myself into an infinite retrogressive sequence of "I"s who consider each other.
I f tile theory is right, we may Therefore never expect to be able in experiments ~ with wtcuum tubes to observe the lines corresponding to high numbers of the Balmer series of the emission spectrum of hydrogen ; it might, however, be possible to observe the lines by investi- gation of the absorption spectrum of this gas (see w 4). I f we now suppose that during the 22 Dr. ~ . I had in the meantime taken a position in London but he awarded me a fellowship to return to Manchester and carry out with Geiger the detailed tests of the con- sequences of the theory, e.g.
I have dwelt on this point in order to show how this intimate connection between the properties of two elements, which at first sight might appear quite surprising, is to be regarded as an immediate expression of the characteristic simple structure of the nuclear atom. I have endeavored to make it clear that in such considerations there is no question whatever-as has been sometimes feared by philosophers and biologists-of so-called purely metaphysical speculations or of an arbitrary renunciation of the possibility by continued research, of further increasing our knowledge of the functioning of organisms.
I have endeavoured to deal with only a small and specialized part of that history-a big advance it is true and arising from the emergence of one of those great men who seem in history to arise in the world, and in a local environment which allows for their right development, about once in a century or so. I have pointed out that the lesson taught us by recent developments in physics regarding the necessity of a constant extension of the frame of concepts appropriate for the classification of new experiences leads us to a general epistemological attitude which might help us to avoid apparent conceptual difficulties in other fields of science as well.
I have previously here in the Physical Society had the opportunity of speaking of the scattering of rays in passing through thin plates, and to mention how Rutherford (1911) has proposed a theory for the structure of the atom in order to explain the remarkable and unexpected results of these experiments. I have shown how the correspondence between the spectrum of an element and the motion of the atom enables us to understand the limitations in the direct application of the combination principle in the prediction of spectral lines.
I have spoken rather long perhaps of Rutherford's early boyhood, but I wish to draw attention to the advantage of such an environment in building a strong, healthy constitution and in creating habits of work and clear thinking yet still allowing for the development of initiative, enthusiasm and joy of work and living under natural rather than artificial city conditions of education and more organized amusement and entertainment. I have talked to Rutherford's parents and brothers and sisters. I hope also that the account may convey to wider circles an impression of how essential the open-minded exchange of ideas has been for the progress in a field where new experience has time after time demanded a reconsideration of our views.
I hope by these remarks to have conveyed the impression that in abandoning the causal description in atomic physics we are not concerned with a hasty assertion of the impossibility of comprehending the wealth of phenomena, but with a serious effort to account for the new type of laws here encountered in conformity with the general lesson of philosophy regarding the necessity of a balance between analysis and synthesis. I hope it will be understood that the tendency of such utterances is equally remote from mysticism and sophistication and that they aim only at a sober logical description of the situation.
I hope that I have succeeded in giving a summary of some of the most important results that have been attained in recent years in the field of atomic theory, and I should like, in concluding, to add a few general remarks concerning the viewpoint from which these results may be judged, and parFor the result of the continued work of Coster and Hevesy with the new element, for which they have proposed the name hafnium, the reader may be referred to their letters in Nature of January 20, February IO and 24, and April 7. I hope, however, netic electron.
I hope, however, that I have to some extent succeeded in giving you the impression that my attitude is in no way in conflict with our common endeavors to arrive at as great a unification of knowledge as possible by the combating of prejudices in every field of research. I hope, however, that the present account of the discussions with Einstein in the foregoing years, which contributed so greatly to make us familiar with the situation in quantum physics, may give a clearer impression of the necessity of a radical revision of basic principles for physical explanation in order to restore logical order in this field of experience.
I it is never possible, in the description of the shall therefore be glad to use this opportunity state of a mechanical system, to attach definite to explain in somewhat greater detail a general values to both of two canonically conjugate viewpoint, conveniently termed *complementar- variables, they consequently deem this formalism ity, which I have indicated on various previous to be incomplete, and express the belief that a occasions,? I left America in June, 1945, before the final test of the atomic bomb, and remained in England, until the oEcial announcement in August 1945 that the weapon had been used.
I mention these developments because they explain why Henri Becquerel in France, considering that the X-rays were somehow connected with the fluorescence, was led to try to obtain X-radiation from the various phosphorescent and fluorescent materials of which he had a good- collection from his father and he discovered that uranium and its salts emitted a continuous radiation (February 1896) which was however later found to be independent of its state of fluorescence. I mentioned the matter to Evans here, who told me that he was much interested in it, and I think it quite possible that he may try some experiments on the matter when he comes back next term. I met the young student Heisenberg for the first time almost forty years ago, in the spring of 1922.
I might mention, however, that the types of molecular models to which we are led are very different from the molecular models which were suggested in my first papers. I must further mention that Evans has made some experiments to determine whether the spectrum in question is due to hydrogen or helium. I must now return again to the question of encounters of a-particles with the nuclei of atoms which started all this discussion of atomic structure. I must pass over so much of his other activities in Montreal and those of his band of colleagues; Rutherford was ever loyal to them in question of credit and priority.
I myself do not take so gloomy a view; moreover, interest in knowledge itself will always remain a potent force in mankind, even though the expression of this interest may for brief periods be overshadowed by the struggle for power, yet it must ultimately benefit and link together people of all nations and races. I need hardly add that the problem was solved with the expected result quite independently by the brilliant investigations of Davis and Gauthier in New York in 1918, and I have only mentioned our fruitless attempts as an indication of the kind of difficulties with which work in the Manchester laboratory was faced in those days, and which were very similar to those the ladies had to cope with in their households.
I need hardly here remind how, by Enrico Fermi's brilliant systematic investigations of neutron induced nuclear transmutat10ns, rad10active isotopes of a great number of elements were discovered and much mformation gained about nuclear processes initiated by capture of slow neutrons. I need hardly here remind how, by Enrico Fermi's brilliant systematic investigations of neutron induced nuclear transmutations, radioactive isotopes of a great number of elements were discovered and much information gained about nuclear processes initiated by capture of slow neutrons. I need hardly recall how already in FINSEN's pioneer work on the curative effect of rays from the sun and the electric arc on skin diseases refined physical technique proved of decisive importance.
I need hardly recall how this remarkable achievement initiated a true avalanche of further progress, and how within a year Heitler and London's analogous treatment of the electronic constitution of the hydrogen molecule gave the first clue to the understanding of non-polar chemical bonds. I need hardly remind you that the logical analysis of situations of this type was to play an important role in the development of mathematical concepts and methods. I need hardly stress that the word conscious- ness presents itself in the description of a behaviour so complicated that communication implies reference to the individual organism's its awareness of itself.
I need not at this place remind in detail how de Broglie's original idea in the hands of Schrodinger should prove basic for the establishment of a general wave equation, which by a novel application of the highly developed methods of mathematical physics was to afford such a powerful tool for the elucida- tion of multifarious atomic problems. I need not go into details here, but shall | the nature of life is possible on a purely physical just recall how ophthalmology has revealed to us | basis. I need only recall that these interference phenomena constitute our only means of investigating the properties of radiation and therefore of assigning any closer meaning to the frequency which in Einstein's theory fixes the magnitude of the light-quantum.
I need only remind you of the great interest that was aroused when Lorentz, shortly after the discovery by Zeeman of the characteristic changes that spectral lines undergo when the emitting substance is brought into a magnetic field, could give a natural and simple explanation of the main features of the phenomenon. I need scarcely emphasise, however, that While in atomic physics we are primarily interested this attitude, which is characteristic of physioin the properties of matter in its simplest forms, logical research, involves no disregard whatsoever the complexity of the material systems with which of the psychological aspects of life.
I pose to you the question at any rate in regard to his character of greatness even if not to that quality of insight which is an attribute of genius whether the proportions should not be about 25: 75 ? I re- member when I held the position of research assistant in Rutherford's laboratory and at the very tender age of 23 I had charge of the distribution of apparatus among the numerous visiting workers who came from all countries to pick up acquaintance with methods of measurement and results in radioactivity.
I received a prompt answer, so characteristic of Rutherford's acute scientific judg- ment and helpful human attitude, that I shall quote it in full: March 20, Dear Dr. Bohr, I have received your paper safely and read it with great interest, but I want to look over it again carefully when I have more leisure. I refer to Moseleys fundamental researches on the Xray spectra of the elements. I refer to the idea that the number of electrons in a neutral atom is exactly equal to the number, giving the position of the element in the periodic table, the socalled atomic number. I regret in this connection not to have time to describe the history of the development of spectral theories, although this would be of interest for our purpose.
I remember also how at the peak of the discussion Ehrenfest, in his affectionate manner of teasing his friends, jokingly hinted at the apparent similarity between Einstein's attitude and that of the opponents of relativity theory; but instantly Ehrenfest added that he would not be able to find relief in his own mind before concord with Einstein was reached. I remember especially how, at my last stay with him a few weeks before his death, he was fascinated by the complementary approach to biological and social problems and how eagerly he discussed the possibility of obtaining experimental evidence on the origin of national traditions and prejudices by such unconventional procedures as the interchange of newborn children between nations.
I remember many peaceful evemng hours m Rutherford's study spent discussing not merely new prospects of physical science but also topics from many other fields of human interest. I remember many peaceful evening hours in Rutherford's study spent discussing not merely new prospects of physical science but also topics from many other fields of human interest. I remember well the pride with which I reported these results to Rutherford, something like that of a cat delivering a choice mouse to his mistress. I saw it described very nicely by the scientific correspondent of the Manchester Guardian, Crowther, who is quite intelligent in these matters. I shall be quite pleased to send it to the Phil Mag.
I shall be very pleased to see your later papers, but please take to heart my advice, and try to make them as brief as possible consistent with clearness. I shall commence by mentioning the conclusions which have been drawn from experimental and theoretical work on temperature radiation. I shall have to limit myself to the statement that not one of the theories so far proposed appears to offer a satisfactory or even a plausible way of explaining the laws of the line spectra. I shall here only remark that the values of the quantum number n, given in the figure, undoubtedly cannot be retained, neither for the S nor the P series. I shall mention only Plancks chief result about the properties of an exceedingly simple kind of atomic system, the Planck oscillator.
I shall mention only that result which lends such charm and simplicity to the modern development of the atomic theory. I shall not develop this matter further, however, since the general results we should get will be evident to you from the views I have developed to explain the properties of the elements actually observed. I shall not discuss these matters any further, but shall only mention that they lead to the conclusion that Rydbergs constant is not exactly the same for all elements. I shall not discuss this question any further, for it would require a thorough study of the interaction between the motions of the electrons in the atoms forming the molecule. I shall not here discuss the capture and binding of these electrons.
I shall not here discuss the familiar difficulties to which the hypothesis of light quanta leads in connection with the phenomena of interference, for the explanation of which the classical theory of radiation has shown itself to be so remarkably suited. I shall not here enter into any further detail but only emphasize that it is just this impossibility of distinguishing, in introspection, sharply between sub ject and object which provides the necessary latitude for the manifestation of volition. I shall not here go further into the nature of these conditions but only mention that by their means the stationary states are characterized by a number of integers, the socalled quantum numbers.
I shall not here try to develop these considerations in further detail, but confine myself to show that the view adopted seems to indicate a possible explanation of the results of the experiments by Paschen and Back on the effect of a magnetic field on spectral lines of complicated structure. I shall not state the reasons which led to the establishment of this nuclear theory of the atom, nor describe the very strong support which this theory has received from very different sources. I shall not tire you any further with more details; I hope to return to these questions here in the Physical Society, and to show how, on the basis of the underlying ideas, it is possible to develop a theory for the structure of atoms and molecules.
I shall possibly refer to these experiments in the Royal Society discussion on nuclei on Thursday April 25. course, in reading this letter, it must be borne in mind that Of my previous visits to Cambridge had kept me acquainted with the work in progress in the Cavendish Laboratory, so that Rutherford had no need to specify the individual contributions of his collaborators. I shall simply mention that it is not possible without coincidence of the planes of the orbits to arrive at an interaction between four subgroups of six electrons each in a configuration of simple trigonal symmetry, which is equally simple as that shown by three subgroups.
I shall simply mention, that in the atom of neon in which we will assume that there are four electrons in 22 orbits the planes of these orbits must be regarded not only as occupying a position relative to one another characterized by a high degree of spatial symmetry, but also as possessing a configuration harmonizing with the four elliptical 21 orbits. I shall therefore immediately proceed to the consideration of those applications of the theory which are of direct importance in connection with our subject.
I shall try to show that the 1,oin~ of view t.~ken above allows, ag any rate, a certain understanding of the laws observed 9 9According to Ilydberg's theory - - w i t h the generalization g,ven by Ritz * ~ t h e frequency corresponding to the lines of the speetrum of an element can be expressed by v= F,(r~) F/T2), where T] and ~'2 are entire numbers, and Fl, F2, F 3 , . I shall, therefore, only remind you that the characteristic feature of Rutherfords theory is the assumption of the existence of a positively charged nucleus inside the atom. I should like to consider some of these theories somewhat more closely, several of which are extremely interesting and have been developed with the greatest keenness and ingenuity, but unfortunately space does not permit me to do so here.
I should like, however, to use this occasion to state, that in view of the recent development of the quantum theory, many of the special assumptions will certainly have to be changed in detail. I suppose you have no objection to my using my judgment to cut out any matter I may consider unnecessary in your paper? I suppose, however, the whole question should be regarded as the result of one process rather than of steps. I t is obvious that the behaviour of such a system will be very different from that of an atomic system occurring in nature. I therefore felt the only way to straighten matters was to go at once to Manchester and talk it all over with Rutherford himself.
I think in your endeavour to be clear you have a tendency to make your papers much too long, and a tendency to repeat your statements in different parts of the paper. I think that the feeling of wonder which the physicists had thirty years ago has taken a new turn. I think that your paper really ought to be cut down, and I think this could be done without sacrificing anything to clearness. I think the evidence in its support, obtained by Chadwick and others, is now complete in the main essentials. I think we have conclusively proved that most of the radioactivity is due to the production of thorium-X by the thorium at a (practically) constant rate and that this thorium-X decays with time.
I thought it appropriate to bring these views to the attention of the American government withodt raising tke delicate matter publicly. I trust, however, that I have not failed in conveying a proper impression of how much it has meant to me to be able to benefit I turn to the United Nations with these considera- tions in the hope that they may contribute to the search for a realistic approach to the grave and urgent problems confronting humanity. I vividly remember how Delbriick, in telling me about the discovery, said that it might lead to a revolution in microbiology comparable with the development of atomic physics, initiated by Rutherford's nuclear model of the atom.
I want to emphasize that the difference between the simple effect of a magnetic field, which the theory predicts for the fine structure of components of the hydrogen lines, and the observed effect on the alkali doublets is in no way to be considered as a contradiction. I want to learn from the preparation of this talk, and discussions with some of you afterwards, as to the contributions of nature and nurture in his make-up and characteristics. I was assisting in these experiments and at Rutherford's suggestion I looked for and was fortunate enough to observe a special kind of scattering involving very large deflexions and for any given angle, e.g. I was at a Physical Society function in London in 1948 and R. S. Willows described graphically a visit he paid to Rutherford at the time.
I was interested to hear about your theory of the Neutron. I was lucky to be allowed to take a very modest share in the experiments leading to his enunciation of the then revolutionary idea of a nuclear atom, almost a scale model of the solar system, and, later in his work, of demonstrating the first recorded case of artificial atomic transmutation-the dream of the alchemists of old. I well remember his inaugural lecture in September I907 with J. J. Thomson and Schuster present, all smiling in happy reunion. I will endeavour to sketch briefly the main course of the successive discoveries. I will go over your paper very carefully and let you know what I think about the details.
I will not enter into many more details, but only mention that the peculiarities we meet with in the 5th period are explained in much the same way as those in the 4th period. I wish I could spread this talk over two sessions, one dealing with Rutherford the man and the other with the sequence and meaning of his discoveries. I wish to emphasize that this equation is to be regarded as a rational generalization of Plancks original statement about the distinctive states of a harmonic oscillator. I wish you were here to talk matters over with. I worked with Rutherford from 1907 to 1914 in Manchester and later for a short period in 1919 after the war. I would not wish to infer that he was a copybook hero.
I young as they were, had already accomplished had made their acquaintance and formed a deep impression of their extraordinary talent in the summer of 1922 during a lecturing visit to fruitful cooperation between the Gottingen, which initiated a long and there under the leadership of Born and Franck, and the group working Copenhagen group. I*1 fact by representing the mechanical > quantities by hermitian matrices with elements referring to all possible transition processes between stationary states, it proved possible without any arbitrariness to deduce the energies of these states and the probabilities of the associated transition processes.
II By the time of the next Solvay conference in 1913, the subject of which was the Structure of Matter, most important new information had been obtained by Laue's discovery in 1912 of the diffraction of Rontgen rays in crystals. IN a previous paper the writer has shown that an explanation of some of the laws of line spectra may be obtained by applying Plancks theory of black radiation to Rutherfords theory of the structure of atoms. IN connexion with the discussion of the physical at what point the concept of observation in- interpretation of the quantum theoretical volving the quantum postulate with its inherent methods developed during recent years, I should irrationality is brought in.
INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone providing copies of Project GutenbergTM electronic works in accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distribution of Project GutenbergTM electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project GutenbergTM work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any Project GutenbergTM work, and (c) any Defect you cause.
INTRODUCTION The subject on which I have the honour to speak here, at the kind invitation of the Council of your society, is very extensive and it would be impossible in a single address to give a comprehensive survey of even the most important results obtained in the theory of spectra. IV How much remained be done before appropriate methods could to be developed for a more comprehensive description of the properties of matter was illustrated by the discussions at the next Solvay con- ference in 1924, devoted to the problem of metallic conduction. IV In the meantime, the work on the electronic constitution of the atom gradually proceeded, and soon again I permitted myself to ask Ruther- ford for help and advice.
IX In the long and rich years during which Rutherford worked with all untiring vigour in the Cavendish, I often came to Cambridge, where on Rutherford's invitation I gave several courses of lectures on theoreti- cal problems, including the epistemological implications of the development of quantum theory. If N is great the ratio between the frequency before and after the emission will be very near equal to 1 ; and according to the ordinary electrodynamics we should therefore expect that the ratio between the frequency of radiation and the frequency of revolution also is very nearly equal to 1. If Plancks constant be de- with complementary pictures of the phenomena, which noted by h, as is well known, only together offer a natural generalization of the clas- sical mode of description.
If a hydrogen atom in one of its stationary states is placed in an external electric field and the electron rotates in a closed orbit, we shall therefore expect that is not altered by the introduction of the atom in the field, and that the only variation of the total energy of the system will be due to the variation of the mean value of the potential energy relative to the external field. If a parallel beam of electrons (or photons) falls from the left on the first diaphragm, we shall, under usual conditions, observe on the plate an interference pattern indicated by the shading of the photographic plate shown in front view to the right of the figure.
If a semi-reflecting mirror is placed in the way of a photon, leaving two possibilities for its direction of propagation, the photon may either be recorded on one, and only one, of two photographic plates situated at great distances in the two directions in question, or else we may, by replacing the plates by mirrors, observe effects exhibiting an interference between the two reflected wave-trains. If an individual Project GutenbergTM electronic work is derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees or charges.
If an individual Project GutenbergTM electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the United States and you are located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by the applicable state law.
If correct it is such an important conclusion that I cannot publish it until I am certain of my accuracy at every point. If corresponding to the co-ordinate axes. If during the motion the coordinates do not become infinite in the course of time or converge to fixed limits, every q will, just as for systems of one degree of freedom, oscillate between two fixed values, different for the different qs and depending on the s. Like in the case of a system of one degree of freedom, pk will become zero and change its sign whenever qk passes through one of these limits.
If for each line we form the product h by multiplying both sides of (5) by h, then, since the righthand side of the resulting relation may be written as the difference of two simple expressions, we are led by comparison with formula (4) to the assumption that the separate lines of the spectrum will be emitted by transitions between two stationary states, forming members of an infinite series of states, in which the energy in the nth state apart from an arbitrary additive constant is determined by the expression En = Kh .
If for instance the quantum theory is taken in the form proposed by Planck in his second theory of temperature radiation, the consequent development to periodic systems of several degrees of freedom would seem to involve a serious difficulty as regards the question of the necessary stability of the temperature equilibrium among a great number of systems for small variations of the external conditions. If for instance we consider the perturbations of a Keplerian motion, we may for 1 take the so called time of perihelium passage. If for instance, for a certain set of values of and t1 , . If for the sake of simplicity we disregard the complex structure shown by the lines of most spectra (occurrence of doublets, triplets etc.
If from (1) and (4) we calculate the frequency, which would correspond to a transition between two particular states of such an oscillator, we find = (n0 n00 ), (13) where n0 and n00 are the numbers characterizing the states. If generalized coordinates are used the description of the motion of these systems can be reduced to the consideration of a number of generalized components of motion.
If in (3) we put E e, we get for the total amount of energy radiated out by the formation of one of the stationary states, 2qr2me 4 Wr /t2T~ " The amount of energy emitted by the passing of the system from a state corresponding to "r ~T1 to one corre- sponding to ~'~-~2, is consequently gy - 2~'rne4 ( I ~) r 2 - - W'rL - - - - ~ - - L'~ 9 'T2 I f now we suppose that the radiation in question is homo- geneous, and that the amount of energy emitted is equal to by, where r is the frequency of the radiation, we get ~rr~ Wr~ = by, 9 See f. inst.
If in the above formula we put N = 2 which corresponds to an atom consisting of an electron revolving around a nucleus with a double charge, we get values for the energies in the stationary states, which are four times larger than the energies in the corresponding states of the hydrogen atom, and we obtain the following formula for the spectrum which would be emitted by such an atom: 1 1 . If is larger than , however, the stationary states will in general not be as well defined as for the original system, and from relation (1) we may therefore expect that the components will be diffuse, although, as long as remains small compared with unity, the width of the components will remain small compared with the displacements from their positions in the presence of the first external field alone.
If m represents the after the observation would be affected by an uncertainty mass of the particle, then the uncertainty attached to the amounting to zeh/A. If next the external field corresponding to is considered as an inherent part of the system, it will be seen in the same way that I will remain unaltered during the establishment of a new small external field, and so on. If next we consider a transition between two stationary states, it is obvious at once from the essential discontinuity, involved in the assumptions I and II, that in general it is impossible even approximately to describe this phenomenon by means of ordinary mechanics or to calculate the frequency of the radiation absorbed or emitted by such a process by means of ordinary electrodynamics.
If next we consider some conditionally periodic motion, obtained by a small variation of the first motion, and which allows of separation of variables in a set of coordinates q10 , . If now for the original motion the coefficients C1 ,..., s corresponding to certain combinations of the s are equal to zero for all values of the constants 1 , . If now the system is subject to some small external field of force, the motion will no more be periodic, but, defining in the usual way the osculating orbit at a given moment as the periodic orbit which would result if the external forces vanished suddenly at this moment, we find that the constants 1 , .
If now, moreover, the variation is performed at a constant or very slowly changing rate, the forces to which the particles of the system will be exposed will not differ at any moment from those to which they would be exposed if we imagine that the external forces arise from a number of slowly moving additional particles which together with the original system form a system in a stationary state.
If on the whole we would claim the existence of a state where the two electrons move in 11 orbits in the same plane, and if in addition it is claimed that the motion should possess the periodic properties necessary for the definition of stationary states, then there seems that no possibility is afforded other than the assumption that the two electrons move around the nucleus in one and the same orbit, in such a manner that at each moment they are situated at the ends of a diameter. If only the instruments are sufficiently heavy compared with the atomic objects under investigation, we can in particular neglect the requirements of relation (3) as regards the control of the localization in space and time of the single pieces of apparatus rela tive to each other.
If our point of view is sound, we should therefore expect to find in this region some connexion between the present theory and the ordinary ideas of electrodynamics. If such an attempt were to be made it would be necessary to give up the simple considerations which lead to the expression (7) for the constant R. We shall see, however, that it appears possible to explain the occurrence of this spectrum in another way. If such an electron revolves about the nucleus in an orbit which is large in proportion to that of the other electrons it will be subjected to forces much the same as the electron in a hydrogen atom, since the inner electrons individually will approximately neutralize the effect of a part of the positive charge of the nucleus.
If the a-priori probabilities are known for the states of a given atomic system, however, they may be deduced for any other system which can be formed from this by a continuous transformation without passing through one of the singular systems referred to below. If the above assmnption is correct, we immediately understand the entirely different form for the laws connecting the lines discussed by ~lieholson and those connecting the ordinary line-spectra considered in this paper. If the above considerations are correct it will be seen that Franck and Hertzs measurements give very strong support to the theory considered in this paper.
If the atom is neutral, the outer electron will be subject to very nearly the same forces as the electron in the hydrogen atom, and the formula (13) indicates the presence of a number of series of stationary states of the atom in which the configuration of the inner electrons is very nearly the same for all states in one series, while the configuration of the outer electron changes from state to state in the series approximately in the same way as the electron in the hydrogen atom. If the atom is neutral, the outer electron will be subject to very nearly the same forces as the electron in the hydrogen atom. If the charge on the nucleus corresponds to that of a single electron and the system consequently is neutral we have a hydrogen atom.
If the diaphragm is sufficiently * The obvious impossibility of actually carrying out, massive in comparison with the particle, we may with the experimental technique at our disposal, such measuring procedures as are discussed here and in the even arrange the procedure of measurements in following does clearly not affect the theoretical argument, since the procedures in question are essentially equivalent such a way that the diaphragm after the first with atomic processes, like the Compton effect, where a determination of its momentum will remain at corresponding application of the conservation theorem of momentum is well established.
If the effects of the two fields on the motion of the electron are of the same order of magnitude we may in this case expect that the hydrogen lines will not be resolved into sharp components but will become diffuse. If the equations of motion for the perturbed system can be solved by means of separation of variables, it is easily seen that the relation in question is fulfilled if the stationary states are determined by the conditions (22). If the external field is sufficiently small, however, the orbit will at any moment only differ little from a closed elliptical orbit, but in the course of time the lengths and directions of the principal axes of this ellipse will undergo slow variations.
If the field increases, the distances between the sub-components at first increase regularly with the strength of the field. If the force is not accurately perpendicular to the plane of the orbit, this deformation will in course of time be considerable, oven if the external electric force is very small compared with the attraction between the particles.
If the hydrogen atom is exposed to a homogeneous electric or to a homogeneous magnetic field, the atom forms a system of this class, and, as shown by Epstein and Schwarzschild as regards the Stark effect and by Sommerfeld and Debye as regards the Zeeman effect, the theory under consideration leads to values for the total energy of the atom in the stationary states, which together with relation (1) lead again to values for the frequencies of the radiations emitted during the transitions between these states, which are in agreement with the measured frequencies of the components into which the hydrogen lines are split up in the presence of the fields.
If the magnetic field is small, the new components will be placed symmetrically with respect to the position of the original components and their intensities will be approximately equal, but when the perturbing influence of the magnetic forces on the motion of the electron becomes of the same order of magnitude as that of the external electric forces, the components in question will in general be placed unsymmetrically with respect to their original position, and their intensities may differ considerably.
If the momentum of this diaphragm is measured accurately before as well as after the passing of the particles, we shall in fact know the sum of the components perpendicular to the slits of the momenta of the two escaping particles, as well as the difference of their initial positional coordinates in the same direction; while of course the conjugate quantities, i. e. , the difference of the components of their momenta, and the sum of their positional coordinates, are entirely unknown.
If the momentum of this diaphragm is weare not dealing with an incomplete description measured accurately before as well as after the characterized by the arbitrary picking out of passing of the particles, we shall in fact know different elements of physical reality at the cost the sum of the components perpendicular to the of sacrifying other such elements, but with a slits of the momenta of the two escaping particles, rational discrimination between essentially differ- as well as the difference of their initial positional ent experimental arrangements and procedures coordinates in the same direction; while of course which are suited either for an unambiguous use the conjugate quantities, i.e., the difference of of the idea of space location, or for a legitimate the components of their momenta, and the sum application of the conservation theorem of mo- of their positional coordinates, are entirely mentum.
If the numbers in this figure were correct, it would require among other things that the P terms should be smaller than the hydrogen terms corresponding to the same principal quantum number. If the numbers n0 and n00 are not large in proportion to their difference, the numerical value of the amplitudes of these components in the two stationary states may be entirely different. If the orbit of the electron is circular, the assumption D is equivalent to the condition that the angular momentum of the system in the stationary states is an integral multiple of.
If the orbits are circular (11) is equivalent to the simple condition that the angular momentum of the system in the stationary states is equal to an entire multiple of In Plancks vibrators the particles are held by quasi-elastic forces, and the mean value of the kinetic energy is equal to the mean value of the potential energy due to the displacements.
If the position of the particle is described in a set of cylindrical coordinates z, , , where z is the displacement in the direction of the axis, the distance of the particle from this axis and is equal to the angular distance q3 , we have therefore X z= C1 ,2 cos 2 (1 1 + 2 2 )t + c1 ,2 (32) X and = C0 1 ,2 cos 2 (1 1 + 2 2 )t + c01 ,2 , where the summation is to be extended over all positive and negative entire values of 1 and 2 , and where 1 and 2 are the mean frequencies of oscillation of the coordinates q1 and q2 . If the procedure employed leads to correct results, it is not therefore permissible to calculate Rydbergs constant directly from the hydrogen spectrum; the value of the universal constant should according to the theory be 109735 and not 109675.
If the relativity modifications are taken into account the ps are defined by a similar set of expressions in which the kinetic energy is replaced by X p T0 = m0 c2 1 1 v 2 /c2 , where the summation is to be extended over all the particles of the system, and v is the velocity of one of the particles and m0 its mass for zero velocity, while c is the velocity of light. If the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem.
If the spectrum of some element contains a spectral line corresponding to the frequency it will be assumed that one of the atoms of the element (or some other elementary system) can emit an amount of energy h. Denoting the energy of the atom before and after the emission of the radiation by E1 and E2 we have h = E1 E2 or = E1 E 2 . If the system is undisturbed all coefficients C1 ,2 will be zero, except C1,0 and C0,1 . If the velocities are so small that the variation in the mass of the particles due to their velocities can be neglected, the ps are defined in the usual way by pk = T , qk (k = 1, . If the wave lengths on the spectrum of hydrogen are measured in vacuo Rydberg calculated the value of R to be 109675.
If there a r e no collisions between the different systems this energy will be emitted as a radiation of the same frequency as that absorbed, and there will be no true absorption but only ascattering of the original radiation ; a true absorption will not occur unless the energy in question is transformed by coilisions into kinetic energy of free particles. If therefore the perturbed motion is all the time compared with a neighbouring undisturbed motion of given constant energy, it follows directly from (47), that, with neglect of small quantities of the same order as the square of the external forces, the integral on the left side, taken over an approximate period of the perturbed motion, will remain unaltered during the perturbations through any time interval, however long.
If therefore the secular perturbations are conditionally periodic, we may conclude that the stationary states of the perturbed system, corresponding to a given stationary state of the undisturbed system, will be characterised by the s 1 conditions Ik = nk h, (k = 1, . If therefore, as asaccording to (22) equal to 2 2 sumed above for a transition corresponding to an emission of linearly polarised light, n3 is unaltered, it means that the angular momentum of the system remains unchanged, while if n3 alters by one unit, as assumed for a transition corresponding to an emission of circularly polarised light, the angular h momentum will be altered by .
If this law is assumed, the spectra do not give us information about the motion of the particles in the atom, as is supposed in the usual theory of radiation, but only a knowledge of the energy changes in the various processes which can occur in the atom. If thus, in the case of a periodic system of one degree of freedom, the field of force is varied by a given amount, and if its comparative variation within the time of a single period was not small, the particle would obviously have no means to get to know the nature of the variation of the field and to adjust its stationary motion to it, before the new field was already established.
If undisturbed, the motion of this system will be periodic independent of the initial conditions, and the particle will describe an elliptical orbit with its centre at the fixed point. If we are interested in such conclusions we must, of course, use an arrangement where the shutter devices can no longer serve as accurate clocks, but where the knowledge of the moment when the hole in the diaphragm is open involves a latitude connected with the accuracy of the energy measurement by the general relation (4).
If we assume of momentum may be made as short as is desired, if onl that the directions of the incident and scattered radiation the wave-length of the radiation used is sufficientl y small are parallel and opposite, respectively, to the direction Of The fact that the recoil then gets larger does not as we the position coordinate and momentum component to have seen, affect the accuracy of measurement. If we assume of position and momentum of a particle if collisions that the directions of the incident and scattered with other material particles are considered instead radiation are parallel and opposite respectively to of scattering of radiation.
If we assume that the motion of the electron is governed by the ordinary mechanics and that there is no (sensible) energy radiation, the total energy of the system as in the above considered stationary states will be constant. If we assume that the radiation einitted is homogeneous, the second assumption concerning the frequency of the radiation suggests itself, since the frequency, of revolution of the electron at the beginning of. If we attempt to account for the radiation of energy in the manner required by the ordinary electrodynamics it will only make matters worse.
If we attempt to obtain a more detailed explanation of the experimental observations, we meet the question of the influence of the presence of the other electrons in the atom upon the firmness of the binding of an electron in a given type of orbit. If we attempt to use this result to explain the spectra of the elements, however, we encounter difficulties, because the motion of the particles in the atom, in spite of its simple structure, is in general exceedingly complicated compared with the motion of a Planck oscillator.
If we consider a hydrogen atom which is exposed to the simultaneous influence of a homogeneous electric field of intensity F and a homogeneous magnetic field of intensity H, the direction of which makes an angle with the direction of the electric field, it follows from the above that, if the perturbing influence of the electric field is large compared with that of the magnetic field, the main effect produced by the latter field on the spectrum may be described as the splitting up of each Stark effect component, polarised perpendicular to the axis of the electric field, into two circularly polarised components, corresponding to the outer members of a Lorentz triplet which would be produced by a magnetic field of intensity H cos .
If we consider a system consisting of an electron revolving about a nucleus with a charge N e and a mass M , we find the following expression for the frequency of revolution of the system: 2 W 3 (M + m) 2 . If we consider for instance an inactive gas like argon, the atomic number of which is 18, we must assume that the 18 electrons in the atom are arranged in an exceedingly regular configuration possessing a very marked stability. If we consider systems of several degrees of freedom the motion will be periodic only in singular cases and the general conditions which determine the stationary states cannot therefore be derived by means of the same simple kind of considerations as in the former section.
If we consider the harmonic components of the motion we obtain a simple explanation both of the nonoccurrence of certain transitions and of the observed polarization. If we consider the passing of the system between two states corresponding to r=~N and r=N n, where n is small compared with N, we get with the same approximation as T above, put ring f (r) = ~, 14 Dr. N. Bohr on the Constitution The possibility of an emission of a radiation of such a frequency may also be interpreted from analogy with tile ordinary electrodynamics, as an electron rota~ing round a nucleus in an elliptical orbit will emit a radiation which according to Fourier's theorem can be resolved into homo- geneous components, the frequencies of which are nw, if co is tile h'equeney of revolution of the electron.
If we denote the energy in the stationary states of the perturbed system by En + E, where En is the value of the energy in the stationary state of the undisturbed system characterised by a given entire value of n in the condition I = nh, we may therefore conclude from the above that the additional energy E in the stationary states of the perturbed system will be equal to the value in these states of the function defined by (45), if we look apart from small quantities proportional to the square of the intensity of the external forces. If we finally in the above formula put ~2=5, 6,.. , we get series, the strong lines of which are to be expected in the ultra-red.
If we imagine that the electrons in the groups of the atom are orientated relatively to one another at any moment, like the vertices of regular polygons, and rotating in either circles or ellipses, the postulates do not give sufficient information to determine the difference in the stability of electronic configurations with different numbers of electrons in the groups. If we may again here rely upon the correspondence principle we have unambiguous evidence that the effect of a magnetic field on the motion of the electrons simply consists in the superposition of a uniform rotation with a frequency given by equation (24) as in the case of the hydrogen atom.
If we neglect the small relativity corrections, every orbit will be periodic independent of the initial conditions and the system will allow of separation of variables in polar coordinates as well as in any set of elliptical coordinates, of the kind mentioned on page 36, if the nucleus is taken as one of the foci.
If we now assume that the effect of the magnetic forces on the motion of the electron is so small compared with the effect of the electric forces, that in the calculations we may look apart from all terms proportional to H2 , it is simply seen that the energy function E in (4), obtained by introducing the momenta defined by (83), will differ from the corresponding function, holding in the absence of the magnetic field, only by the addition of a term which is e linear in the momenta and equal to (vA). If we now assume that the total energy emitted is equal to h we obtain for the total angular momentum of the radiation P = h .
If we now consider a transition between two stationary states characterized by certain numbers n0 , k 0 and n00 , k 00 , we find that in the region where these numbers are large compared with their differences n0 n00 and k 0 k 00 , the frequency of the spectral line which is emitted will be given approximately by the formula (n0 n00 ) + (k 0 k 00 ). If we now consider an element whose atoms in the gaseous state do not combine into molecules, it will be necessary to assume that under ordinary conditions nearly all the atoms exist in that stationary state in which the value of the energy is a minimum. If we now consider somewhat more closely this apparently surprising result, it is found that a clear grasp of it may be obtained from the point of view of correspondence.
If we now consider the atoms of elements of still higher atomic number, we must first of all assume that the 55th and 56th electrons in the atoms of caesium and barium are bound in 61 orbits. If we now consider the effect of external forces upon the fine structure components of the hydrogen lines it is necessary to keep in mind that this fixation of the stationary states only applies to the unperturbed hydrogen atom, and that, as mentioned, the orbits in these states are in general already strongly influenced by the presence of external forces, which are small compared with those with which we are concerned in experiments on the Stark and Zeeman effects.
If we now temporarily disregard the energy radiation, which, according to the ordinary electrodynamics, will accompany the accelerated motion of the electron, the latter in accordance with Keplers first law will describe an ellipse with the nucleus in one of the foci. If we pnt T.2=3, and let T1 vary, we get a series ~ which includes 2 of the series observed by Fowler, and denoted by him as the first and second principal series of the hydrogen spectrum.
If we proceed to the following elements, a still larger number of 33 orbits will occur in the normal state of these atoms, since the number of such electron orbits will depend upon the firmness of their binding compared to the firmness with which an electron is bound in a 41 orbit, in which type of orbit at least the last captured electron in the atom may be assumed to move. If we put 7~=4, we get the series observed by Pickering in the spectrum of ~'Yuppis. If we put T~='2 and let 71 vary, we get the ordinary Balmer series. If we put T~=3, we get the series in the ultra-red observed by Paschen* and previously suspected by Ritz.
If we put T~=I and ~-:=4, 5,.., we get series respectively in the extreme ultra- violet and the extreme ultra-red, which are not observed, but the existence of which may be expected. If we put n00 = 1 or n00 = 3 we obtain respectively the ultraviolet and infrared series. If we put n00 = 2 and give to n0 the values 3, 4, etc., we get the wellknown Balmer series of hydrogen. If we retain the principal assumption of stationary states, we must assume that a magnetic field exerts an influence on the mechanism of transition between the stationary states, and thereby on the relation between the frequency of the radiation and the amount of energy emitted).
If we therefore assume that the orbit of the electron in the stationary states is circular, the result of the calculation on p. 5 can be expressed by the simple condition : that the angular momeiltum of the electron round the nucleus in a s~ationary state of the system is equal to an entire multiple of a universal value, independent of the charge on the nucleus. If we therefore introduce a new set of variables w1 , . If we therefore suppose that these quantities in the presence of an electric field can be expressed by a series of terms involving ascending powers of, we may regard the above deduction as a determination of the coefficient of the second term in this series, and may expect the validity of the expressions for every value of.
If we thus consider a process in which one of the electrons in a group (subgroup) is removed we must be prepared to find that after the process the orbits of the remaining electrons in this group may be orientated in more than one way in relation to one another, and still fulfil the conditions required of the stationary states by the quantum theory. If we try, however, to calculate directly the effect of the field by means of the frequency condition (4), we immediately meet with an apparent disagreement which for some time was regarded as a grave difficulty for the theory. If we were to treat these particles as geometrical points this energy would be infinitely great, and with the dimensions of the electrons as calculated from their mass (about 1013 cm.
If we would assume that the effect of the field on the motion of the system at any moment could be calculated directly by means of ordinary mechanics, we would find that the values of the Is with respect to the latter coordinates would remain constant during the process, but this would involve that the values of the ns in (22) would in general not be entire numbers, but would depend entirely on the accidental motion, satisfying (24), originally possessed by the system. If you are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
If you are outside the United States, check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project GutenbergTM work. If you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase Project Gutenberg associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project GutenbergTM trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9. If you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of Project GutenbergTM electronic works in your possession.
If you do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very easy. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project GutenbergTM electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8. If you received the work electronically, the person or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If you received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation.
If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project GutenbergTM electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of the Project GutenbergTM trademark.
If, as in the applications considered below, s is equal to 3, this problem allows of a general solution, and we must therefore expect that in this case the effect on the spectrum of the perturbed of the example in 5 on page 192. system produced by an arbitrary second external field, which is small compared with the first, will consist in the splitting up of every component into a number of separate components, just as the effect of an arbitrary small external field on the lines of the spectrum of a simple periodic system of two degrees of freedom.
If, as in the figure, the diaphragm with the two slits is placed in the middle between the first diaphragm and the photographic plate, it will be seen that the number of fringes per unit length will be just equal to hsw and, since an uncertainty in the position of the first diaphragm of the amount of 1/sw will cause an equal uncertainty in the positions of the fringes, it follows that no interference effect can appear. If, for example, the hydrogen atom is subjected to a small disturbing force which perturbs the regular precession, the electron orbit in the stationary states will have a form altogether d&rent from that given in the figure.
If, for the moment, we consider the mass of the nucleus as infinite, the system will allow of a separation of variables in polar coordinates, and the stationary states may consequently be fixed by the conditions (16). If, for the two parts of the system, we take a particle and a diaphragm, like that sketched in Fig. If, however, an explanation of this kind is attempted on the basis of the classical laws of mechanics and electrodynamics, insurmountable difficulties are encountered.
If, however, for the moment we exclude all stationary states for which the angular momentum round the axis of the system would be equal to zero (n3 = 0), the total angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus will during the perturbations always remain larger than or equal to h/2, just as in the stationary states considered in the theory of the fine structure; and, according to the considerations on page 128, we shall therefore expect that the effect of the neglect of possible radiation forces will be small compared with the effect of the relativity modifications.
If, however, several electrons should happen to be removed from one of the rings by a violent impact, the considerations at the end of the former section would not apply, since the electrons removed in this case can be replaced by electrons in the other rings. If, however, the variation of the external conditions is very slow, we may from the necessary stability of the stationary states expect that the motion of the system at any given moment during the variation will differ only very little from the motion in a stationary state corresponding to the instantaneous external conditions.
If, however, we admit a sufficiently large latitude in the knowledge of the position of the diaphragm it should, in principle, be possible to control the momentum transfer to the diaphragm and, thus, to make more detailed predictions as to the direction of the electron path from the hole to the recording point. If, however, we confine ourselves to systems of one degree of freedom, it will be seen that systems in which the motion is of rotating type, i. e. where the particle during a period passes only once through every point of its orbit, cannot be formed in a continuous manner from a linear harmonic vibrator without passing through singular states in which the period becomes infinite long and the result becomes ambiguous.
If, however, we consider the problem of the simultaneous influence on the hydrogen spectrum of the relativity modifications and a homogeneous shown in Kramers paper, it is possible, on the basis of the calculation of the amplitudes of the harmonic vibrations into which the motion of the electron in the stationary states can be resolved, to account satisfactorily for Nyquists and Starks results. If, however, we consider the ratio of the frequencies of revolution in two stationary states corresponding to given values of n0 and n00 , we see that this ratio approaches unity as n0 and n00 gradually increase, if at the same time the difference n0 n00 remains unchanged.
If, however, we have to do with atomic systems, whose constitution and reactions to external influence are fundamentally determined by the quantum of action, we are in a quite different position. If, however, we inquire about the possibility of a transition from one of the orthohelium states to a configuration of this type we meet conditions which are very different from those which apply to transitions between two of the orthohelium orbits. If, in the beginning, the box contained a certain amount of radiation and the clock was set to open the shutter for a very short interval at a chosen time, it could be achieved that a single photon was released through the hole at a moment known with as great accuracy as desired.
If, moreover, there exists a second periodic system of the same character to which the first periodic system can be transformed continuously, but for which the set of s is different, it will be possible in general by a suitable cyclic transformation to pass in a mechanical way between any two stationary states of the given conditionally periodic system satisfying (22). If, on the contrary, we would consider a state of the atom for which n2 was equal to zero, the orbit would be plane and would during the perturbations assume shapes, for which the total angular momentum round the nucleus was very small, and in which the electron during the revolution would pass within a very short distance from the nucleus.
If, on the other hand, the effect of the magnetic field is large compared with that of the electric field, the directing effect of the latter cannot prevent the general rotation of the system, and it is easily seen that the case will be very similar to that due to the magnetic field alone. If, on the other hand, the effect of the magnetic field is large compared with that of the electric field, the first condition may be said to be imposed on the system by the slow periodic oscillation in the shape and position relative to the axis, which the electric field produces on the uniformly rotating orbit which the electron would describe if the atom was exposed to the magnetic field only.
If, on the other hand, the ionization potential of mercury should prove to be as low as assumed by Franck and Hertz, it would constitute a serious difficulty for the above interpretation of the Rydberg constant, at any rate for the mercury spectrum, since this spectrum contains lines of greater frequency than the line 2536. If, on the other hand, the relativity modifications are taken into account, the method of separation of variables cannot be applied, but, with reference to the considerations at the end of the last section, it will be seen that it is possible, also in this case, to predict at once the modification in the effect of an electric field on the fine structure of the hydrogen lines, which would result from the simultaneous presence of a parallel magnetic field.
If, on the other hand, we consider the binding process which accompanies the emission of the parhelium spectrum and where the electrons in the stationary states move in orbits whose planes form angles with one another we meet essentially different conditions. If, therefore, the application of ordinary mechanics to the stationary states of the system does not lead to strictly circular orbits, the assumption E cannot be applied. If, when the relativity modifications are taken into account, the motion of the system is simply periodic independent of the initial conditions, we shall consequently expect that the stationary states are characterised by the condition I = nh only, and that the energy and frequency are the same for all states corresponding to a given value of n in this equation.
Illustrative of this situation is the discussion raised by the discovery of the Stern-Gerlach effect in 1922. Im- mediately after this discovery, Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch, then working in Stockholm and Copenhagen, and now both in Cambridge, made an important contribution to the understanding of the phenome- non by pointing out that the critical decrease in stability of nuclei of high charge was a simple consequence of the balancing of cohesive forcesbetween the nuclear constituents and the electrostatic repulsion.
Immediately after this discovery, Lise Meitner and Otto Frisch, then working in Stockholm and Copenhagen, and now both m Cambridge, made an important contribution to the understandmg of the phenom enon by pointing out that the critical decrease in stability of nuclei of high charge was a simple consequence of the balancing of cohesive forces between the nuclear constituents and the electrostatic repulsion. Important information on this point has been obtained recently by Franck and his coworkers.
Important progress in the development of quantum theory was made by Einstein himself in his famous article on radiative equilibrium in 1917, where he showed that Planck's law for thermal radiation could be simply deduced from assumptions conforming with the basic ideas of the quantum theory of atomic constitution. Impressed with the difficulties of such a programme, we therefore all felt the greatest admiration when the 23 -year-old Heisen- berg found out how the goal could be reached with one stroke. Impressive examples are the recent discoveries of the fine structure of muscles and of the transport of the materials used for the activity of the nerves.
In 1877, the year after Rutherford began attendance, the system was consolidated into a national system of 'secular compulsory and free' education-even at that time a bold experiment which caused New Zealand to be regarded as a very advanced country in educational matters. In 1913, of course, the experimental evidence was still far too scarce, and the theoretical methods for classification of stationary states were not yet sufficiently developed to cope with so ambitious a task. In 1933 he had given evidence of his international sympathies by becoming Chairman of the Academic Assistance Council set up to care for the interests of academic victims of the Nazi persecution.
In 2 we saw that in the proof of the mechanical invariance of relation (10) for a periodic system of one degree of freedom, it was essential that the comparative variation of the external conditions during the time of one period could be made small. In 2001, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for Project GutenbergTM and future generations. In B~icholson's cal- culations tile frequency of lines in a line-spectrum is identified with tile fl'equency ot vibration of a mechanical system in a disinctly indicated state of equilibrium.
In England also Sir William Crookes ingeniously extracted by chemical methods a substance uranium-X from uranium nitrate which thereby became weaker in activity while the new substance uranium-X decayed with a half-value period of 1 month and the original uranium recovered at a corresponding rate. In Germany however a young man should really have more respect for a Geheimrat and I was advised to exercise a little more discretion, but we had never been expected to exercise discretion of that kind in democratic Canada.' In Julius Thomsen's representation of the natural system, however, this hypothetical element was given a position homologous to titanium and zirconium in much the same way as in our representation in Fig.
In July, 1919, when after the Armistice travelling was again possible, I wentto Manchester to see Rutherford and learned in more detail about his great new discovery of controlled, or so-called artificial, nuclear transmutations, by which he gave birth to what he liked to call "modern Alchemy", and which in the course of time was to give rise to such tremendous consequences as regards man's mastery of the forces of nature.
In New Zealand, where he was born, I also came to know much concerning his early upbringing and education-and its environ- ment, and to realize and appreciate the part played by that environment in the moulding of his character and the development and unfolding of his genius, thus preparing him for the part he seemed almost destined to play in what is perhaps the most outstanding development of knowledge in all history. In Newtonian mechanics, where the state of a system of material bodies is defined by their instantaneous positions and velocities, it proved possible, by the well-known simple principles, to derive, solely from the knowledge of the state of the system at a given time and of the forces acting upon the bodies, the state of the system at any other time.
In Part I it was shown that the problem of the fixation of the stationary states of a periodic system of several degrees of freedom, which is subject to the perturbing influence of a small external field, cannot be treated directly on the basis of the general principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states by considering the influence, which on ordinary mechanics a slow establishment of the external field would exert on the motion of some arbitrarily chosen stationary state of the undisturbed system (see Part I, page 41). In Part III the problem of the series spectra of other elements will be treated from a similar point of view. In Plancks original theory certain other assumptions about the properties of the vibrating systems were used.
In Plancks theory it is taken for granted that the frequency of the radiation emitted and absorbed by the oscillator is equal to its own frequency, an assumption which may be written , (2) if in order to make a sharp distinction between the frequency of the emitted radiation and the frequency of the particles in the atoms, we here and in the following denote the former by and the latter by .
In Rutherford's case, he plunged quickly into his researches; fortunately, only simple apparatus was required apart from the quadrant electrometer which was a capricious instrument which he learned to replace by home-made electros Following further investigations confirming the two types of radiation from uranium and experiments on ionization produced by ultra-violet light and by heated platinum he turned his attention to thorium and assisted by Owens, the lecturer in electrical engineering, some very perplexing observations were made. In Rutherford's he found in Marcus Oliphant a collabora- last years tor and friend whose general attitude and working power reminds us so much of his own.
In Rutherford's laboratory, I met on that occasion Hevesy and Paneth, who told me of the success of the first systematic investigations by the tracer method of the solubility of lead sulphide and chromate, which at the beginning of that year they had carried out together in Vienna. In Rutherford's last years he found m Marcus Oliphant a collaborator and fnend whose general attitude and working power reminds us so much of his own. In THE UNITY OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE II atomic processes, however, we meet with regularities of a novel kind, defying causal pictorial description but nevertheless responsible for the peculiar stability of atomic systems on which all properties of matter ultimately depend.
In a case of degeneration, however, where the orbit will be confined to an extension of less dimensions, there will exist for all values of the s one or more relations of the type m1 1 +. In a certain sense, therefore, the motion of the outer electron may be compared with the motion of the electron of the hydrogen atom perturbed by external forces, and the appearance of the various series in the spectra of the other elements is from this point of view to be regarded as analogous to the splitting up of the hydrogen lines into components on account of such forces.
In a collisionwith a hydrogen nucleus (a proton as it is now called) the nearest approach could be calculated to be 1-7 x 10-13 cm, assuming both acted as point charges and the inverse square law of force still held, a distance which is less than the diameter of an electron. In a complement to Cotton's report, Madame Curie drew special attention to the use of such magnets for the investi- gations of radioactive processes, which especially through Rosen- blum's work should give important new results as regards the fine structure of a-ray spectra. In a corresponding manner it is possible to account for the electronegative and electropositive character of elements like sulphur and calcium, whose atomic numbers are 16 and 20.
In a discussion of such non-periodic orbits, however, the general principles applied are no longer sufficient guidance. In a later discussion of this point Epstein2 ) calls attention to the fact that, if small quantities proportional to the square of the electric force are taken into account, the system appears no more as degenerate; and he finds therein a justification of the fixation of the stationary states by means of (22). In a lecture on that occasion, I advocated a point of view conveniently termed "complementarity," suited to embrace the characteristic features of individuality of quantum phenomena, and at the same time to clarify the peculiar aspects of the observational problem in this field of experience.
In a lecture on this occasion, I tried especially to stress the analogy in epistemological respects between the limitation imposed on the causal description in atomic physics and situations met with in other fields of knowledge. In a paper which appeared some time ago in the Transactions of the Copenhagen Academy, I have shown that the spectra, calculated with the aid of this method for the fixation of the stationary states, exhibit a correspondence with the spectra which should correspond to the motion of the system similar to that which we have already considered in the case of hydrogen.
In a previous paper which I presented to the Copenhagen Academy I pointed out that these results confirm the conclusions obtained by the application of the correspondence principle to atomic systems possessing radial or axial symmetry. In a recent paper W. H. Bragg has shown that, in order to excite any line of the radiation of an element, the frequency of the exciting radiation must be greater than the frequency of all the lines in the radiation. In a similar manner the absorption of rays of a given wave length by a substance can be determined by calculating the effect of electromagnetic oscillations upon the motion of the electrons. In a system consisting of an electron and a nucleus the period of oscillation corresponds to the period of revolution of the electron.
In a visualisation by means of ordinary space-time particular, the idea of individual stationary states pictures. In accepting Einstein's idea of light quanta or photons with fact, energy where h is Planck's constant, one was led to assume that hv, any emission or absorption of radiation by the atom is an individual r process accompanied by an energy transfer h (T T"), and to inter- pret AT as the binding energy of the electrons in some stable, or so- called stationary, state of the atom. In accordance with ordinary usage we will, for the sake of brevity, designate an orbit with principal quantum number n as an nquantum orbit.
In accordance with the diffraction of the waves when passing through the hole, the state of motion of the particle to the right of the diaphragm is represented by a spherical wave train with a suitably defined angular aperture u and, in case of Fig. In accordance with this situation there can be no question of any unambiguous interpretation of the symbols of quantum mechanics other than that embodied in the well-known rules which allow to predict the results to be obtained by a given experimental arrangement described in a totally classical way, and which have found their general expression through the transformation theorems, already referred to.
In actual experimental arrangements, the fulfilment of such require- ments is secured by the use, as measuring instruments, of rigid bodies sufficiently heavy to allow a completely classical account of their relative positions and velocities. In actual experimentation this demand amply is with the specification satisfied of the experimental conditions through the use of heavy bodies such as diaphragms and photographic plates, the manipulation of which is accounted for in terms of classical physics.
In actual physical experimentation this require- ment by using as measuring instruments rigid bodies such is fulfilled as diaphragms, lenses, and photographic plates sufficiently large and heavy to allow an account of their shape and relative positions and dis- placements without regard to any quantum features inherently in- volved in their atomic constitution.
In actual physical research, this demand is amply satisfied with the specification of the experimental arrangement through the use of bodies like diaphragms and photographic plates, so large and heavy that their manipulation can be accounted for in terms of classical physics, although of course the properties of the materials of which the instruments, as well as our own bodies, are built up depend essentially on the constitution and stability of the component atomic systems defying such account. In addition Rau found that the lines corresponding to high values of n appeared for very nearly the same voltages for all the different series in both helium spectra.
In addition he considers the effect of terms proportional to the square of the magnetic force and shows that in a strong magnetic field these terms may be expected to have an appreciable influence on the magnetic resolution of the hydrogen lines corresponding to high numbers in the Balmer series. In addition it is supported by evidence of a different nature to that which we have hitherto used. In addition there are many hundred unstable radioactive nuclei produced by collision methods and which have a limited life. In addition to the observed components, however, we might from (81) and (1) expect the appearance of a number of components, displaced from the original positions of the lines by higher multipla of vH .
In addition to when the first cargo of meat was successfully removal of heat from the store, the engineering brought from Australia in the frozen condition. In addition, Evans has succeeded in obtaining the lines in such pure helium that no trace of the ordinary hydrogen lines could be observed. In addition, Kossel's views offered an explanation of the fact that the absorption of penetrating radiation of increasing wavelength practically begins with an absorption edge representing the complete removal in one step of an electron of the respective shell.
In addition, Langevin has shown that the total energy of the system is not altered by the rotation, since a possible gain in the kinetic energy of the electrons may be considered as balanced by a corresponding loss of potential energy of the whole system relative to the field. In addition, for a stationary orbit is equal to the mean value of the total kinetic energy of the particles; from (10) we therefore get In using the expressions (6) we have assumed that the motion of the particles in the stationary states of the system can be determined by help of the ordinary mechanics.
In agreement with what has been brought to light by investigations on absorption of Xrays in elements of lower atomic number, such as have been performed in recent years in the physical laboratory at Lund, we understand immediately that the position and eventual structure of the absorption edges will to a certain degree depend upon the physical and chemical conditions under which the element investigated exists, while such a dependence does not appear in the characteristic emission lines.
In all actual experimentation this demand is fulfilled by using as measuring instruments bodies like diaphragms, lenses and photo- graphic plates so large and heavy that, notwithstanding the decisive role of the quantum of action for the stability and properties of such bodies, all quantum effects can be disregarded in the account of their position and motion. In all the circumstances it yould seem t4at an under- standing could hardly fail, to result, when the'partners have had a respite for considering the consequences of a refusal to accept the invitation to co-operate: and con- vincing themselves of the advantages of an arrangement. In all the foregoing calculations we have assumed that the mass of the nucleus is infinitely great compared to that of the electron.
In all these applications a separation of variables is obtained in a set of three coordinates q1 , q2 and q3 , of which the first two serve to fix the position of the particle in a plane through the axis of the system, while the last is equal to the angular distance between this plane and a fixed plane through the same axis. In all walks of life more people fail from lack of grit than from lack of inborn cleverness. In an address which I delivered to you about a year ago I described the main features of a theory of atomic structure which I shall attempt to develop this evening.
In an arrangement suited for measurements of the momentum of the first diaphragm, it is further clear that even if we have measured this momentum before the passage of the particle through the slit, we are after this passage still left with a, free choice whether we wish to know the momentum of the particle or its initial position relative to the rest of the apparatus. In an atom with several electrons the orbits will, in general, have a complicated character.
In an attempt to develop certain outlines of a theory of line-spectra based on a suitable application of the fundamental ideas introduced by Planck in his theory of temperatureradiation to the theory of the nucleus atom of Sir Ernest Rutherford, the writer has shown that it is possible in this way to obtain a simple interpretation of some of the main laws governing the line-spectra of the elements, and especially to obtain a deduction of the well known Balmer formula for the hydrogen spectrum1 ) The theory in the form given allowed of a detailed discussion only in the case of periodic systems, and obviously was not able to account in detail for the characteristic difference between the hydrogen spectrum and the spectra of other elements, or for the characteristic effects on the hydrogen spectrum of external electric and magnetic fields.
In an attempt to explaia some of the properties of matter on the basis of this atom model we meet, however, with difficulties ot~ a serious nature arising from the apparent 2 Dr. N. Bohr on the Constitution instability of the system of electrons: difflo,ulties purposely avoided in atom-models previously considered,red, for instance, in the one proposed by Sir J. J. Thomson*. In an explanation of the periodic system it is natural to assume a division of the electrons in the atom into distinct groups in such a manner that the grouping of the elements in the system is attributed to the gradual formation of the groups of electrons in the atoms as the atomic number increases.
In an imperfect form, this law was first stated by Van den Broek; it was, however, foreshadowed by J. J. Thomson's investigations of the number of electrons in the atom, as well as by Rutherford's measurements of the charge on the atomic nucleus. In an interesting paper by A. Rubinowicz (Phys. In analogy to created in the last few years that the general the interpretation considered in the original form aims laid down in the principle mentioned have of the theory of the diagonal elements connected obtained an adequate formulation.
In analogy to the assumption used in this paper that tho emission of line-spectra is due to the re-formation of atoms after one or more of the lightly bound electrons are removed, we may assume that the homogeneous Riintgen radiation is emitted during the settling down of the systems after one of the firmly bound electrons escapes, e.g. In analogy to the interpretation interaction, thus offering an immediate connection with _ considered in the original form of the theory of the the above considerations concerning radiation and free diagonal elements connected only with a single particles.
In analogy we may now from the above expe- riments conclude that a bound electron also in cases in which there is no ionization will have an absorbing (scattering) influence on a homogeneous radiation, as soon as the fre- quency of the radiation is grea|er than W/h, where W is the total amount of energy emitted during the binding of the electron, This would be highly in favour of a theory of absorption as the one sketched above, as there call in such a case be no question of a coincidence of the frequency o[ the radiation and a characteristic frequency of vibration of the electron.
In analogy with the case of a single ring we are here led to assume that corresponding to any configuration of equili- brium a series of geometrically similar, stationary con- figurations of the system will exist in which the kinetic energy of every electron is equal to the frequency of revo- lution multiplied by 2h where ~"is an entire number and h Planek's constant. In analogy with the expression (31) for the displacements of the particles of an ordinary conditionally periodic system which allows of separation of variables, we get further in the present case that every of the s and s may be expressed as a function of the time by a sum of harmonic vibrations of small frequencies ) X = Ct1 ,..., ts1 cos 2 (t1 v1 + .
In analogy with the fact that on the latter theory such a system will without external excitation emit a radiation of frequency , Einstein assumes in the first place that on the quantum theory there will be a 0 certain probability that the system in the stationary state of greater energy, characterised by the letter n0 , in the time interval dt will start spontaneously to pass to the stationary state of smaller energy, characterised by the letter n00 .
In analogy with the resolution of the motion of an ordinary conditionally periodic system which possesses an axis of symmetry in its constituent harmonic vibrations, discussed in Part I on page 61, it follows from the discussion of the general character of the secular perturbations on page 104 that the motion of the electron in the perturbed atom in this case can be resolved in a number of linear harmonic vibrations parallel to the axis with frequencies P + t1 v1 and in a number of circular harmonic rotations perpendicular to the axis with frequencies P + t1 v1 + v2 .
In analogy with this, Einstein assumes secondly that in the presence of a radiation in the surrounding space, the system will on the quantum theory, in addition to the above mentioned probability of spontaneous transition from the state n0 to the state n00 , possess a certain probability, depending on this radiation, of passing in the time dt from the state n0 to the state n00 , as well as from the state n00 to the state n0 . In any attempt of a pictorial representation of the behaviour of the photon we would, thus, meet with the difficulty: to be obliged to say, on the one hand, that the photon always chooses one of the two ways and, on the other hand, that it behaves as if it had passed both ways. In any case I will make any corrections in English that are necessary.
In any such series of stationary con- figurations the one corresponding to the ~reatest amount of energy emitted will be the one in which r for every electron is equal to 1. In approaching this task I shall endeavour to present 79 80 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE these discussions against the background of the many-sided develop- ment which atomic physics has undergone in the last fifty years.
In at correlating such effects, especially by Weiss' spite of earlier attempts introduction of an interior magnetic field associated with the ferro- magnetic state, a clue to the understanding of the phenomena had first of the align- recently been found by Heisenberg's original comparison ment of the electron spins in ferromagnetic substances with the quantum statistics governing the symmetry properties of the wave 04 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE functions responsible for the chemical bonds in Heitler and London's theory of molecular formation. In atoms of higher atomic number it is also negligible compared with the disturbing effect of the inner electrons on the motion of the outer electron.
In bee particle the knowledge of energy and mo- addition, Schredinger could associate with the mentum excludes, as we have seen, the exact solutions of the wave equation a continuous dis- knOWkdtie of its space-time co-ordinates. In both cases several different types of orbit for the outer electron present themselves, for instance, circular orbits perpendicular to the axis of the system or very flat orbits parallel to this axis. In both cases the conception of stationary states and of individual we are concerned with a demand of causality transition processes are maintained even in this limit, complementary to the space-time description, the This question offers a particularly instructive adequate application of which is limited only by example for the application of the new methods.
In both cases we are concerned with a demand magnitude Of the quantum numbers associated with the of causality complementary to the _pace-time desch- proper vibrations. In both cases we see the direction of the position co-ordinate and that the uncertainty in question equally affects momentum component to be measured, then the description of the agency of measurement and cA/21 can be taken as a measure of the accuracy of the object. In both cases, however, it will be seen that the frequency v = 1 1 2 will be equal to the frequency with which the orbit at regular intervals re-assumes its shape and position.
In both of these n1 and n2 may vary by an arbitrary number of units, but in the first kind of transition, which will give rise to a radiation polarised parallel to the axis of the system, n3 will remain unchanged, while in the second kind of transition n3 will decrease or increase by one unit and the emitted radiation will be circularly polarised round the axis in the same direction as or the opposite of that of the rotation of the particle respectively.
In both respects, of atomic mechanics might even seem difficult the efficiency of the eye is the same as that of a to reconcile with an explanation of the marvellously | good telescope or microscope, connected with a refined organisation, which every living being suitable amplifier so as to make the individual possesses, and which permits it to implant all the processes observable. In both these cases, as also assumed by Einstein, the observable effects are expected to be in complete conformity with the predictions of the theory.
In calculations made in connection with these investigations it is assumed that the electrons in the various groups move in separate concentric regions of the atom, so that the effect of the presence of the electrons in inner groups upon the motion of the electrons in outer groups as a first approximation may be expected to consist in a simple screen ing of the nucleus. In case of nucleons, the self-energy problem isprimarily connected with their firm coupling with the meson field. In case of such a configuration it will appear that the condition of dissymmetry necessary for a different effect on different orbits of the outer electron is satisfied.
In case of the Zeeman effect of the hydrogen lines, it is therefore necessary beforehand to expect that the intensity of the radiation, summed over all directions, corresponding to each of the three components in which every line is split up must be the same. In case of the perturbed system allowing of separation of variables in a fixed set of coordinates, this result may be simply shown to be a direct consequence of the fixation of the stationary states by means of the conditions (22).
In case we consider the general problem of the effect on a hydrogen atom of a small electric or magnetic field, which do not possess axial symmetry round an axis through the nucleus, or of the simultaneous effect of two such fields, which do not possess such symmetry round a common axis, we must expect that the secular perturbations of the orbit of the electron will in general not be of conditionally periodic type.
In case, howeveas in the region of quantum phenomena-this interaction plays an essential r61e for the appearance of the phenomena themselves, the situation is completely changed, and we are in particular forced to renounce the combination, characteristic of classical physical description, of the space-time co6rdination of the event with the general conservation theorems of dynamics.
In case, however, this system is degenerate, it is obviously impossible, by a direct application of the principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states, to determine the alteration in the energy in the stationary states of the system, which will be due to the presence of a second external field small compared with the first field; because, as mentioned, the stationary states of the system, in the presence of this field only, will be determined by a number of conditions which is less than the number s of degrees of freedom, and that consequently the cycles of shapes and positions, which the orbit will pass through in these states, will not be completely determined.
In certain cases the second external field will not only give rise to small displacements of the original components but also to the appearance of new components of small intensities proportional to 2 . In certain cases, however, the perturbations will be of such a regular character that the perturbed system can be decomposed into harmonic oscillations, although the ensemble of these oscillations will naturally be of a more complicated kind than in the unperturbed system.
In certain respects this case falls outside the general theory of conditionally periodic systems discussed in this section, but, as we shall see in Part II, it can be simply shown that the presence of the magnetic field imposes the further condition on the motion in the stationary states that the angular momentum round the axis of the field h is equal to n0 , where n0 is a positive entire number equal 2 to or less than n2 , and which for the system considered in the spectral problems must be assumed to be different from zero.
In classical mechanics, the forces between bodies were assumed to depend simply on the instantaneous positions and velocities; but the discovery of the re tardation of electromagnetic effects made it neoessary to consider force fields as an essential part of a physical system, and to include in the des ription of the state of the system at a given time the 8pecification of these fields in every point of space. In classical physics we assume that phenomena can be subdivided without limit, and that especially the interaction between the measur- ing instruments and the object under investigation can be disregarded or at any rate compensated for.
In classical terms and specified by means of parameters entering into the algebraic or differential equations of which the matrices or the wave functions, respectively, are solutions. In closing, however, I should like to emphasize once more that in this lecture I have only intended to bring out certain general points of view lying at the basis of the spectral theory. In collaboration, they made at that time important contributions to statisticalthermodynamics and its application to astrophysical prob- lems.
In commenting on the difficulties of harmonizing this new feature with the conceptual framework of classical physics, he stressed that the essential point was not the introduction of a new hypothesis of energy quanta, but rather a remoulding of the very concept of action, and expressed the conviction that the principle of least action, which was also upheld in relativity theory, would prove a guidance for the further development of quantum theory.
In commenting upon the latter problem, Sommerfeld called attention to the resemblance of some of his considerations with those exposed in a recent paper by Haas, who in an attempt at applying quantum ideas to the electron binding in an atomic model like that suggested by J. J. Thomson, involving a sphere of uniform positive electrification, had obtained rotational frequencies of the same order of magnitude as the frequencies in optical spectra. In comparing different national cultures we meet with the special of difficulty the culture of one nation in terms of the tradi- appreciating tions of another.
In comparing such considerations with the exigencies of the quantum-mechanical formalism, Heisenberg called attention to the fact that the commutation rule (2) imposes a reciprocal limitation on the fixation of two conjugate variables, q and p, expressed by the relation Dq .
In complete analogy to the problem of the fixation of the stationary states of an atomic system when the relativity modifications are taken into account, it follows therefore that, if these equations can be solved by the method of separation of variables, we obtain, by fixing the stationary states by means of the conditions (22), a relation between the total energy of the atom in the presence of a magnetic field and the fundamental frequencies characterising the motion of the electron, which is exactly the same as that holding between the energy and frequencies in the stationary states of an ordinary conditionally periodic system.
In complete analogy with the considerations in Part I, we are therefore led to conclude that in the present case only two types of transitions between the stationary states of the perturbed atom are possible. In con- interaction between the objects which we sym- nexion with the measurement of the position of a bolise by the abstractions of isolated particles and particle, one might, for example, ask whether the radiation. In con- nection with their studies of many types of oc-ray induced nuclear disintegrations, Rutherford and Chadwick made an extensive search for evidence concerning the existence of such a particle.
In concluding this address I hope that the temerity of a physicist venturing so far outside his restricted domain of science may be forgiven in view of the most welcome opportunity of profitable discussion offered to physicists and biologists by this gathering to honour the memory of the great pioneer to whose fundamental discoveries both branches of science owe so much. In concluding, I want to express the hope that this review of some features of the historical development may have given an indication of the debt which the community of physicists owe to the Solvay Institute, and of the expectations which we all share for its future activity. In concluding, I wish to join our president in expressing the hope that this Congress will prove a landmark in the advance of radiology.
In conformity with the non-pictorial character of the formalism, its physical interpretation finds expression in laws, of an essentially statistical type, pertaining to observations obtained under given experimental conditions. In conjunction with her husband she also made the significant observation that while all chemically prepared uranium compounds were active, approximately in accord- ance with their content of the uranium element.
In connection with Rutherford's remark, it is of special interest to 42 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE recall that Einstein, in his famous paper of 1917 on the derivation of Planck's formula for temperature radiation, took the same starting point as regards the origin of spectra, and pointed to the analogy be- tween the statistical laws governing the occurrence of spontaneous radiation processes and the fundamental law of radioactive decay, formulated by Rutherford and Soddy already in 1903.
In connection with a thorough examination of the exigencies of thermodynamics as regards radiation problems, Einstein stressed the dilemma still further by pointing out that the argumentation implied that any radiation process was "unidirected" in the sense that not only is a momentum corresponding to a photon with the direction of propagation transferred to an atom in the absorption process, but that also the emitting atom will receive an equivalent impulse in the opposite direction, although there can on the wave picture be no question of a preference for a single direction in an emission process.
In connection with the above calculations, it may be remembered that the fixation of the stationary states, leading to the formul (68) or (71), is based on the assumption, that the motion of the electron can be determined as that of a mass point which moves in a conservative field of force, according to the laws of ordinary relativistic mechanics, and that we have looked apart from all such forces which, according to the ordinary theory of electrodynamics, would act on an accellerated charged particle, and which constitute the reaction from the radiation which on this theory would accompany the motion of the electron.
In connection with the above considerations it may be of interest, however, to consider the problem in question directly from the point of view of perturbed periodic systems, because it presents a characteristic example of a degenerate perturbed system.
In connection with the analogous consideration, given in the Note on page 149 of the present paper, which leads to a different result, it may be of interest to remark that the necessary conformity between the relative values for the a-priori probability of the different stationary states of the undisturbed hydrogen atom, deduced from an enumeration of the stationary states of the atom which appear in the presence of a small external electric field or in the presence of a small magnetic field respectively, cannot be obtained if in both cases we would exclude only such states in which the angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus is always equal to zero. In connection with the complementary nature tion, which is brought in by the quantum postulate, has (ith?
In connection with the considerations mentioned above regarding the frequencies involved in the electron binding in the atom, it occurred to me that the transfer of energy from the particles to the electrons could be simply treated in analogy to the 36 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE dispersion and absorption of radiation. In connection with the discussion energy. In connection with the discussion of the general theory, however, it may be of interest to show that the formal analogy between the ordinary theory of radiation and the theory based on (1) and (22), in case of systems possessing an axis of symmetry, can be traced not only with respect to frequency relations but also by considerations of conservation of angular momentum.
In connection with the fixation of the stationary states in this problem, it may be remarked that we must assume that no stationary state will exist for which the angular momentum round an axis through the nucleus parallel to the magnetic field would be equal to zero. In connection with the measure- individual in the ordinary way, it must be clearly realized ment of the position of a particle, one might, for example, that we are dealing with an abstraction, from which no ask whether the momentum transmitted by the scattering Imagbaigufi information concerning the previous or could not be determined by means of the conservation future behaviour of the individual can be obtained.
In connection with the often discussed question whether such formalisms can be regarded as an extension of our power of visualization, it must not be forgotten that the representation of the co6rdination of space and time in the theory of relativity by a four dimensional manifold, as also the connecting of kinematic and dynamic quantities in quantum mechanics by non-commutative algebra, rest essentially on the old mathematical artifice of the introduction of imaginary quantities; in fact the fundamental constants, the velocity of light and the quantum of action, are introduced into the formalism as factors of the /- , the one in the definition of the fourth coordinate, the other in the commutation laws of canonically conjugate variables.
In connection with the problem under consideration here, it may be useful for the sake of illustration to note, that, if the perturbing effect of the electric field is large compared with that of the magnetic, the second of these conditions may be said to be imposed on the system by the slow and uniform rotation, which the magnetic field produces on the periodic cycle of shapes and positions of the orbit of the electron, which would appear if the atom was exposed to the electric field only. In connection with the rapid development of atomic physics in those years the interest was increasingly focused on the question of the logical ordering of the wealth of empirical data.
In connection with this consideration it may be remarked that, adopting a terminology well known from acoustics, we may from the point of view of the quantum theory regard the higher members of the Balmer series (n0 = 4, 5, . In connexion with discussed frequently, and were also considered by the discussion of paradoxes of the kind mentioned, Heisenberg. In connexion with the complementary was given a formulation which can compete wif nature of the quantum theoretical description, we classical mechanics as generality and must, as already mentioned, constantly keep the consistency.
In connexion with the important work of Ehrenfest and Einstein these efforts led to the formulation of the so-called correspondence principle, according to which the occurrence of transitions between the stationary states accompanied by emission of radiation is traced back to the harmonic components into which the motion of the atom may be resolved and which, according to the classical theory, determine the properties of the radiation to which the motion of the particles gives rise.
In consequence of the singular position of the degenerate systems in the general theory of stationary states of conditionally periodic systems, we obtain a means of connecting mechanically two different stationary states of a given system through a continuous series of stationary states without passing through systems in which the forces are very small and the energies in all the stationary states tend to coincide (comp. In consequence of this, the equations (46), which determine the secular perturbations, will possess the same form as the Hamiltonian equations of motion for a particle moving in a plane and subject to a central field of force. In consequence, ac- methods to be mentioned below. In consequence, according to e}]ementfl.ry waves.
In considering the figure it must not be forgotten that the description of the orbit is there incomplete, in so much as with the scale used the slow precession does not show at all. In considering the formation of the atoms of other elements we have also in their spectra sources for the elucidation of the formation processes, but the direct information obtained in this way is not so complete as in the case of the hydrogen atom.
In considering the work of Rutherford in this period, assisted only by the laboratory steward Mr W. Kay, the difficulties of making accurate observations of such feeble scintillations using the microscopes then available, and the tremendous complexity of the radiations which he found to be involved, one cannot but be filled with admiration for his pertinacity, his intuition in making deductions from the results of each experiment, and his boldness and directness of attack following each clue presented. In contrast to chlorine and potassium these elements are divalent, and the stable configuration of 18 electrons is formed by the addition of two electrons to the sulphur atom and by the loss of two electrons from the calcium atom.
In contrast to considerations of ordinary statistical mechanics we possess on the quantum theory no direct means of determining these apriori probabilities, because we have no detailed information about the mechanism of transition between the different stationary states. In contrast to the Tr-mesons, the SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 99 /x-mesons were found to exhibit no strong coupling to the nucleons and to decay, themselves, into electrons under emission of two neutrinos. In contrast to the above considerations he attempts to apply the results on the explanation of the Stark effect without leaving ordinary electrodynamics.
In contrast to the forms of motion where at every moment the position of the electrons exhibits polygonal or polyhedral symmetry, the conception of this interaction evolved from a consideration of the possible formation of atoms by successive binding of electrons has such a character that the harmonic components in the motion of an electron are in general represented in the resulting electric moment of the atom. In contrast to the ions of the elements of the preceding periods where all the electrons are assumed to be very firmly bound, the occurrence of such processes in the fourth period is exactly what we should expect.
In contrast to the theory of 2 stationary states of conditionally periodic systems based on the possibility of separation of variables and the fixation of the Is by (22), this method does not lead to an absolute fixation of the stationary states, because, as pointed out by Schwarzschild himself, the above definition of the P s leaves an arbitrary constant undetermined in every of these quantities.
In contrast to the view often expressed, that the consistency of a compre- hensive theory of elementary particles will demand a new radical departure involving a universal length of the order of yo, such an analysiswould ratherseem to suggest that the restricted scope of the conventional procedure originates in consequences of quantum theory which are indicated already in the present formalism and which may offer clues tothe dimensional relations which charac- terize a rational limitation to the simple particle and field concepts.
In contrast to what in general will take place during a slow establishment of the external field, we may therefore expect that, for this special shape and position of the orbit, a direct application of ordinary mechanics will be legitimate in calculating the effect of the establishment of the field, since there will in this case obviously be nothing to cause the coming into play of some non-mechanical process, connected with the mechanism of a transition between two stationary states accompanied by the emission or absorption of a radiation of small frequency.
In contrast to what in general will take place if the atom is exposed to an electric field of axial symmetry, it will thus be seen that, if the hydrogen atom is exposed only to a magnetic field possessing axial symmetry, the ensemble of components into which a given hydrogen line is resolved will be completely symmetrical with respect to the position of the original line, as regards the frequencies as well as the intensities and polarisations. In dealing with the more complicated structure of the spectra of other elements, we must assume that the atoms of such elements possess several different series of stationary states.
In direct analogy to what holds for perturbed periodic systems of two degrees of freedom, the difference between the values of in two slightly different states of the perturbed system, corresponding to the same value of I, will in the present case be given by = v I, (56) where v is the frequency of the secular perturbations, and where I is defined by I= Z vX s 0 2 k Dk dt, Dt (57) where s = 1/v is the period of the perturbations. In each group the levels are arranged in the same succession as their energy values, but their distances do not give a quantitative picture of the actual energydifferences, since this would require a much larger figure.
In earlier Memorial Lectures, several of Rutherford's closest co-workers have recalled the mspiration which emanated from his vigour and enthusiasm and the charm of his impulsive ways. In earlier work on atomic structure it was supposed that the electrons in the various groups in the atom moved in separate regions within the atom and that at each moment the electrons within each separate group were arranged in configurations possessing symmetry like that of a regular polygon or polyhedron. In early 1914 therefore I decided, naturally with Rutherford's encouragement, to investigate these effects-a sort of game of atomic marbles.
In ease of systems eontainlng more electrol~s we m u s t - - in conformity with the result of experiments expect snore eomplieated laws for tbe line, sl, extra than those considered. In elementary atomic processes, however, we meet with a novel feature of wholeness which even prevents unambiguous separation between the behaviour of the objects under investigation and their interaction with the measuring instruments necessary for the fixation of the circumstances under which the phenomena appear. In emphasizing this last feature I have two points in mind. In every experishould apply the word mechanics only to ment on living organisms, there must remain an denote an unambiguous causal description of the uncertainty as regards the physical conditions to phenomena.
In every way, these repeated visits to Manchester were a great stimulation and gave me the welcome opportunity to keep abreast of the work in the laboratory. In exact analogy with what has already been said about the relations between the properties of the elements in the fourth and fifth periods this may be very simply explained by the fact that an eccentric 54 orbit will correspond to a considerably looser binding of an electron in the atom of an element of the seventh period than the binding of an electron in a circular 44 orbit in the corresponding element of the sixth period, while there will be a much smaller difference in the firmness of the binding of these electrons in orbits of the types 71 and 61 respectively.
In experiments in the last few days similar effects have been observed in Boron and Fluorine but the ranges of the particles are smaller although they look like a-particles. In expressing the warmest wishes for the success of the investigations of the distinguished group of scientists working in this new and magnificently equipped Institute, I cannot think of a better prospect than that it will contribute to increase our insight into that order of nature which it was the original aim of the atomic conception to account for. In fact by means of the principles I have described, it is possible to give a unique fixation of the stationary states.
In fact from the considerations, mentioned in 1, it follows that, if the a-priori probability of the stationary states of a given system is known, it is possible at once to deduce the probabilities for the stationary states of any other system to which the first system can be transformed continuously without passing through a system of degeneration. In fact here not the lines of the principal series but the lines of the sharp and diffuse series are absorption lines.
In fact if the motion of the particles were simply harmonic, as the motion of a Plancks vibrator, we should expect on the considerations in Part I that no transition between two stationary states of the atom would be possible for which n0 and n00 differ by more than one unit; but this would obviously be inconsistent with the observations, since for instance the lines of the ordinary Balmer series, according to the theory, correspond to transitions for which n00 = 2 while n0 takes the values 3, 4, 5, . In fact in taking such a step we cannot expect that all cases of disagreement between the theoretical conceptions hitherto employed and experiment will be removed by the use of Plancks assumption regarding the quantum of the energy momentarily present in an oscillating system.
In fact it is an obvious consequence of the above argumentation that in each experimental arrangement and measuring procedure we have only a free choice of this place within a region where the quantum-mechanical description of the process concerned is effectively equivalent with the classical description. In fact it is an obvious we must therefore obviously allow for a latitude consequence of the above argumentation that in in the energy balance, corresponding to the quan- each experimental arrangement and measuring tum-mechanical uncertainty relation for the con- procedure we have only a free choice of this place jugate time and energy variables.
In fact the answer to the question, whether a given state of a system is stationary, will not depend only on the motion of the particles at a given moment or on the field of force in the immediate neighbourhood of their instantaneous positions, but cannot be given before the particles have passed through a complete cycle of states, and so to speak have got to know the entire field of force of influence on the motion.
In fact the total variation in 1 at any moment t will be equal to the total work performed by the external forces since the beginning of the establishment of the perturbing field, and will therefore be given by Z t s t X 1 t 1 = qk dt = 0 1 qk Z t t dt t , 0 (48) where the expression on the right side is obtained by partial integration; but, since both terms in this expression are of the same order of magnitude as 1 , we see that the total variation in 1 within the interval in question will, just as in case of a constant perturbing field, be only a small quantity of this order. In fact these experiments tell us that the first member of the sequence of Sterms corresponds to this state.
In fact this new feature of natural philosophy means a radical revision of our attitude as regards physical reality, which may be paralleled with the fundamental modification of all ideas regarding the absolute character of physical phenomena, brought about by the general theory of relativity.
In fact this new feature of uncontrollable exchange of momentum or energy natural philosophy means a radical revision of between the objects of measurements and all our attitude as regards physical reality, which instruments defining the space-time system of may be paralleled with the fundamental modifi- cation of all ideas regarding the absolute char- arrangements, which hadto be left out of this article, acter of physical phenomena, brought about by where the main stress is laid on the dialectic aspect of the question at issue.
In fact we have assumed that the direct transition between two such states cannot be described by ordinary mechanics, while on the other hand we possess no means of defining an energy difference between two states if there exists no possibility for a continuous mechanical connection between them. In fact, a demonstration would have been given to the world of preparedness to live together with all others under conditions where mutual relationships and common destiny would be shaped only by honest conviction and good example.
In fact, a few days before receiving his answer I had sent Rutherford a considerably ex- tended version of the earlier manuscript, the additions especially con- cerning the relation between emission and absorption spectra and the asymptotic correspondence with the classical physical theories. In fact, a postponement to await further developments might, especially if prepara- tions for competitive efforts in the meantime have reached an advanced stage, give the approach the appear- ance of an attempt at coercion in which no great nation can be expected to acquiesce.
In fact, a transition by which the third electron in the lithium atom was ultimately bound in a 11 orbit would lead to a state in the atom in which the electron would play an equivalent part with the two electrons previously bound. In fact, after a preliminary measurement of the momentum of the diaphragm, we are in principle offered the choice, when an electron or photon has passed through the slit, either to repeat the momentum measurement or to control the position of the diaphragm and, thus, to make predictions pertaining to alternative subsequent observations. In fact, again and again we have been confronted with experiences which in an unforeseen way have revealed limitations of customary ideas and demanded a revision of the foundation of our whole conceptual frame.
In fact, all our knowledge concerning would be an illusion and its applicability only an the internal properties of atoms is derived from illustration of the resonance mentioned. In fact, although any pair q and p, of conjugate space and momentum variables obeys the rule of non-commutative multiplication expressed by (2), and can thus only be fixed with reciprocal latitudes given by (3), the difference q1 - q2 between two space-co-ordinates referring to the constituents of the system will commute with the sum p1 + p2 of the corresponding momentum components, as follows directly from the commutability of q1 with p2 and q2 with p1.
In fact, although any pair, q and p, of conjugate space and momentum variables obeys the rule of noncommutative multiplication expressed by (1), and thus can be fixed only with reciprocal lati tudes given by (3), the difference q1 - q2 between the space coordinates referring to two constituents of a system will commute with the sum p1 + p2 of the corre sponding momentum components, as follows directly from the commutability of q1 with p2 and of q2 with P1 Both q1 - q2 and p1 + p2 can, therefore, be ac- curately fixed in astate of the complex system and we can consequently predict the value of either q1 or p1 if either q2 or p2 respectively, is determined by di rect measurement.
In fact, although the perpendicular component of the weaker field, apart from small quantities proportional to 2 , will not have any secular effect on the cycle of shapes and positions which the orbit of the electron would pass through if the atom was exposed to the stronger field only, it will obviously produce alterations in the motion of the electron within this cycle which are proportional to . In fact, any attempt at locating atomic objects in space and time demands an experimental arrangement involving an exchange of momentum and energy, un contiollable in principle, between the objects and the scales and clocks defining the reference frame.
In fact, any possibility of taking into account the momentum exchanged between the particle and the separate parts of the apparatus would at once permit us to draw conclusions regarding the "course" of such phenomena, say through what particular slit of the second diaphragm the particle passes on its way to the photographic plate which would be quite incompatible with the fact that the probability of the particle reaching a given element of area on this plate is determiried not by the presence of any particular slit, but by the positions of all the slits of the second diaphragm within reach of the associated wave diffracted from the slit of the first diaphragm.
In fact, any possibility of taking into from de Broglie's relation between momentum account the momentum exchanged between the and wave-length that the uncertainty Ap of the particle and the separate parts of the apparatus momentum of the particle in this direction is would at once permit us to draw conclusions correlated to Ag by means of Heisenberg's regarding the '*course of such phenomena,say general principle through what particular slit of the second ApAg~h, diaphragm the particle passes on its way to the photographic platewhich would be quite in- such valuesto both 0: and P;. In fact, as a consequence of the change in the electron's mass with velocity that is claimed by the theory of relativity, the electron orbit will undergo a very slow precession in the orbital plane.
In fact, as first pointed out by Weisskopf, the singularities inquantum electrodynamics were largely reduced in the case of fermions, whereas in the case of bosons the self-energy diverges even more strongly than in classical electrodynamics, within the frame of which, as was already stressed in the discussions at the conference between different quantum statistics is excluded. In fact, as he showed, the set of stationary states of atoms with two electrons consists of two non-combining groups corresponding to symmetric and antisymmetric spatial wave functions, respectively associated with opposite and parallel orientations of the electron spins.
In fact, as is not least conspicuous in European history, contact between nations has often resulted in the fusion of cultures retaining valuable elements of the original national traditions. In fact, as it appears from the considerations on page 179, the stationary states will in this case be fixed completely by two conditions, of which the one, in the same way as in the simple theory of the Stark effect, defines the position of the plane in which the electrical centre of the orbit of the electron moves, while the other defines the value of the angular momentum of the electron round the axis of the fields in the same way as in the simple theory of the Zeeman effect.
In fact, as seen from (46), the variations in the shape and position of the orbit will remain the same if is multiplied by a constant factor, which will only influence the rate at which these variations are performed.
In fact, as seen from (52), we obtain in this way a relation between the additional energy and the frequencies of the secular perturbations of exactly the same type as that holding for the energy and frequencies of ordinary conditionally periodic systems and expressed by (22) and (29); moreover we may conclude beforehand that the state in which every of the quantities Ik , defined by (53), is equal to zero must belong to the stationary states of the perturbed system, because in this case the orbit will not undergo secular perturbations for a constant external field, nor during a slow and uniform establishment of this field.
In fact, as seen in 4, we must assume that, in case of a hydrogen atom exposed to a homogeneous electric field, no such states will be possible; and by imagining that the electric field decreases slowly to zero, while at the same time a magnetic field parallel to the electric field is slowly established, it would be possible, without passing through a degenerate system, to obtain a continuous transformation of the stationary states of the perturbed atom during which the angular momentum of the electron round the axis would remain unaltered.
In fact, as was shown in Sommerfeld's famous paper of 1916, the separate quantiza- tion of the angular momentum and of the action in the radial motion permitted a detailed interpretation of the observed fine structure of the lines in the spectra of the hydrogen atom and helium ion. In fact, as we shall see, a criterion of reality Let us first assume that, corresponding to like that proposed by the named authors con- usual experiments on the remarkable phenomena tainshowever cautious its formulation may of electron diffraction, the diaphragm, like the appearan essential ambiguity when it is ap- other parts of the apparatus,say a second plied to the actual problems with which we are diaphragm .
In fact, as we shall see, a criterion of reality like that proposed by the named authors contains - however cautious its formulation may appear - an essential ambiguity when it is applied to the actual problems with which we are here concerned. In fact, as we shall see, a criterion of reality like that proposed by the named authors contains however cautious its formulation may appear an essential ambiguity when it is applied to the actual problems with which we are here concerned. In fact, by further examining the possibilities for the application of a balance arrangement, Einstein had perceived alternative procedures which, even if they did not allow the use he originally intended, might seem to enhance the paradoxes beyond the possibilities of logical solution.
In fact, comparing (68) and (71), we get 2 2 N 2 e4 m 3 2 N 2 e4 0 En = 1 2 2 2 , (72) h2 n2 chn which is seen to be a function of n only. In fact, data obtained in such a way simply supplement each other and can be combined under into a consistent picture of the behaviour of the object investigation. In fact, dation of the theory of light quanta and of the wave here again we are not dealing with contradictory but theory of material particles. In fact, denoting c E expressed as a function of the qs and ps by (p, q), we get from (83) together with (4), with the approximation under consideration, 0 E (p , q) = = e c 3 X 1 3 X 1 (p0 pk ) = p0k k qk 3 X E e (vA) 1 p0k c qk (vA) e = (vA).
In fact, due to the symmetry with respect to the axis of the stronger field, exhibited by the periodic cycle of shapes and positions which the orbit of the electron would pass through if the atom were exposed to this field only, it is easily seen that the contribution, which the perpendicular component of the weaker field gives to the mean value of corresponding to the latter field, will vanish.
In fact, even if we knew the posi- the other parts of the apparatus, it would at tion of the diaphragm relative to the space frame least in principle* be possible to measure its before the first measurement of its momentum, momentum with any desired accuracy before and even though its position after the last meas- and after the passage of the particle, and thus to urement can be accurately fixed, we lose, on predict the momentum of the latter after it has account of the uncontrollable displacement of passed through the slit.
In fact, even if we knew the position of the diaphragm relative to the space frame before the first measurement of its momentum, and even though its position after the last measurement can be accurately fixed, we lose, on account of the uncontrollable displacement of the diaphragm during each collision process with the test bodies, the knowledge of its position when the particle passed through the slit. In fact, for all we know, we may have here to do with a steady increase in the stability of the constitution of the cells with an expenditure of free energy corresponding to the increase of entropy in usual irreversible chemical processes.
In fact, for systems which are not simply periodic it is not possible to obtain sufficient information about the motions of these systems in the stationary states from the numerical values of the energy alone; more determining factors are required for the fixation of the motion. In fact, for this value of I, the shape and position of the orbit will not undergo secular perturbations but will remain unaltered for a constant external field as well as during a slow and uniform establishment of this field. In fact, for wave-lengths comparable with yo, the calculatedcross-sections forphoton- photon interaction become so large that the superposition principle, fundamental in present field theories, breaks down.
In fact, from a consideration based on the general connection between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation, it easily shown that this ratio will be a small quantity of the 2 3 e 2 same order of magnitude as N , and it would therepc fore beforehand seem justified in the expression for the total energy in the stationary states to retain small terms of the same order as the second term in (71), while at the same time it might appear highly questionable, whether, in the complete expression for the total energy in the stationary states deduced by Sommerfeld and Debye on the basis of the conditions (16), it has a physical meaning to retain terms of higher order than those retained in formula (68); unless N is a large number, as in the theory of the Rontgenspectra to be discussed in Part III.
In fact, from a consideration of the necessary stability of spectral phenomena, it follows that the total radiation of the components, in which a spectral line, which originally is unpolarised, is split up in the presence of a small external field, cannot show characteristic polarisation with respect to any direction. In fact, great progress in this direction was soon after the conference achieved by Fermi, who on this basis developed a consistent theory of (3-decay, which in subsequent developments should prove a most important guidance.
In fact, here v=1/r is the frequency, oy, o, o; the wave numbers again we are not dealing with contradictory but with in the direction of the co-ordinate axes, which may complementary pictures of the phenomena, which be regarded as vector components of the wave only together oe)er a natural generalisation of the number o=1/A in the direction of propagation. In fact, if a is the radius of the orbit, the frequency of revolution and F the force of reaction due to the electromagnetic field of the radiation, the amount of energy and of angular momentum round an axis through the centre of the field perpendicular to the plane of the orbit, lost by the electron in unit of time as a consequence of the radiation, would be equal to 2aF and aF respectively.
In fact, if instead of the angular distance of the radius-vector we take for q2 some continuous periodic function of this angle with period 2, every point in the plane of the orbit will correspond to one set of coordinates only and the relation between p and q will be exactly of the same type as for a periodic system of one degree of freedom for which the motion is of oscillating type. In fact, if n is the number which characterises the corresponding stationary state of the undisturbed system, this state of the perturbed system will correspond to n1 = 0, n2 = n or to n1 = n, n2 = n, according to whether 2 during the perturbations oscillates between fixed limits, or increases (or decreases) continuously.
In fact, if the definition As pointed out by Heisenberg, atoms with different of the energy of the reacting individuals is to be orientation in the field may only be separated if accurate to such a degree as to entitle us to speak the deviation of the beam is larger than the dif- of conservation of energy during the reaction, it fraction at the slit of the de Broglie waves repre- is necessary, according to this relation, to co- senting the translational motion of the atoms. In fact, if the secular perturbations are of conditionally periodic type, the displacement of the electron in any given direction may be represented as a sum of harmonic vibrations by an expression of the same type as (65).
In fact, if the variation of the mass with the velocity is neglected we get Z I=2 T dt, 0 and if the relativity modifications are included, we get a quite analogousPexpression p in which the kinetic energy is replaced 1 2 00 m v 1 v 2 /c2 . In fact, if w is the small angle between the conjectured paths of a particle passing through the upper or the lower slit, the difference of momentum transfer in these two cases will, according to (1), be equal to hsw and any control of the momentum of the diaphragm with an accuracy sufficient to measure this difference will, due to the indeterminacy relation, involve a minimum latitude of the position of the diaphragm, comparable with 1/sw.
In fact, if we assume that the undisturbed motion, considered in (47), corresponds to some stationary state, satisfying (24) for a given value of n, and that the perturbed motion is also stationary and satisfies (22), we see that the right side of (47) will be zero, and we get the result that the mean value of the inner energy in the stationary states of the system, with the approximation mentioned, will not be altered in the presence of the external field.
In fact, if we consider a given conditionally periodic system which can be transformed in a continuous way into a system for which every orbit is periodic and for which every state satisfying (24) will also satisfy (22) for a suitable choice of coordinates, it is clear in the first place that it is possible to pass in a mechanical way through a continuous series of stationary states from a state corresponding to a given set of values of the ns in (22) to any other such state for which 1 n1 + +s ns possesses the same value.
In fact, if we imagine that an external central field of force, varying as the inverse cube of the distance from the nucleus, is slowly established, it would be possible to compensate the secular effect of the relativity modifications and to obtain orbits in which the electron would pass within any given, however small, distance from the nucleus.
In fact, in connection with the development of his theory of the physical structure of the phase space, mentioned in Part I on page 31, in which conditions of the same type as (22) are established, Planck has deduced expressions for the total energy of a great number of systems in temperature equilibrium, which, if applied to systems of the same kind as those considered in the above example, show a dependency of this energy on the temperature which is different, according to whether polar coordinates or rectangular coordinates are used as basis for the structure of the phase space.
In fact, in examining the necessary conditions for the explanation of the second law of thermodynamics Ehrenfest1 ) has deduced a certain general condition as regards the variation of the a-priori probability corresponding to a small change of the external conditions from which it follows, that the a-priori probability of a given stationary state of an atomic system must remain unaltered during a continuous transformation, except in special cases in which the values of the energy in some of the stationary states will tend to coincide during the transformation.
In fact, in quantum physics we are presented not with intricacies of this kind, but with the inability of the classical frame of concepts to comprise the peculiar feature of indivisibility, or "individuality," characterising the elementary processes. In fact, in such phenomena we have no longer to do with experimental arrangements consisting of apparatus essentially at rest relative to one another, but with arrangements containing moving parts, like shutters before the slits of the diaphragms, controlled by mechanisms serving as clocks.
In fact, in the account of the functioning of devices for calculation and control we can essen- tially disregard the atomic constitution of matter and confine ourselves to the account of the mechanical and electrical properties of the materials used and to the application of the simple physical laws THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THE SCIENCES 21 governing the interaction between the parts of the machine. In fact, in the consideration of the problem, it was found necessary to look closer into the consequences of the identification of inertial and gravitational mass implied in the application of relation (5).
In fact, in the latter case the motions of the electron in two stationary states of the perturbed atom, corresponding to the same value of n, will be symmetrical with respect to a plane through the axis, and these states will possess the same values for the additional energy, if n1 is the same while the values of n2 are numerically equal but have opposite signs. In fact, in the potassium atom the 41 orbit of the 19th electron will, as far as inner loops are concerned, coincide closely with the shape of a 31 orbit. In fact, in the presence of a small external field, the motion of a periodic system will undergo slow variations as regards the shape and position of the orbit, and if the perturbed motion is conditionally periodic these variations will be of a periodic nature.
In fact, in this case the shape and position of the orbit are characterised by two constants 2 and 2 , and from the equations (46), which will be analogous to the equations of motion of a system of one degree of freedom, it follows directly that during the perturbations 2 will be a function of 2 and that in general these quantities will be periodic functions of the time with a period s which, besides on 1 , will depend on the value of only. In fact, it follows from the experiences which 13both cases, we see that the uncertainty in question have found expression in the wave theory of matter that equally affects the description of the agency of measure- the position of the centre of gravity of a body and its mefnt and of the object.
In fact, it had become clear that such collisions lead directly to the creation of so-called 77-mesons which subsequently decay under neutrino emission into /x-mesons. In fact, it is always possible in the description of a formulated as follows: If, without in any way mechanical system, consisting of two partial systems (1) disturbing a system, we can predict with cer- and (2), interacting or not, to replace any two pairs of canonically conjugate variables (gip1), (q2pz) pertaining tainty the value of a physical quantity, then to systems (1) and (2), respectively, and satisfying the there exists an element of physical reality usual commutation rules corresponding to this physical quantity.
In fact, it is clear that the last electron captured, so long as it is in that stage of the binding process in which its orbit is still large compared to the orbits of the previously bound electrons, will be subjected to a force from the nucleus and these electrons, that differs but little from the force with which the electron in the hydrogen atom is attracted towards the nucleus while it is moving in an orbit of corresponding dimensions. In fact, it is difficult to imagine that the progress from experiments with electrically charged currents could have been achieved if the sensitive instruments necessary for the detection of such currents, afterwards so readily constructed, had not been provided by nature itself in the nervous fabric of higher animals.
In fact, it is in general possible, by means of the principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states, with the approximation mentioned to determine the alteration of the energy of the system, due to the presence of the second external field, directly from the character of the secular perturbations produced by the first external field only. In fact, it is only on the assumption that the diaphragm and the plate have well-defined positions in space that it is impossible, within the frame of the quantum-mechanical formalism, to make more detailed predictions as to the point of the photographic plate where the particle will be recorded.
In fact, it is only the mutual exclusion of any two experimental procedures, permitting the unambiguous definition of complementary physical quantities, which provides room for new physical laws, the coexistence of which might at first sight appear irreconcilable with the basic principles of science. In fact, it is possible to point out many characteristic features of the reactions of living organisms, like the sensitivity of visual perception or the induction of gene mutation by penetrating radiation, which undoubtedly in volve an amplification of the effects of individual atomic processes, similar to that on which the experimental technique of atomic physics is essentially based.
In fact, it seems likely that the introduction of still further abstractions into the formalism be required to account for the novel features revealed will by the exploration of atomic processes of very high energy. In fact, it was shown in Part I that, for a conditionally periodic system possessing an axis of symmetry, we shall expect only two types of transitions to be possible. In fact, just as in the case of a harmonic oscillator, a simple calcula- tion showed that, for each of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom, the action integrated over an orbital period of the electron could be identified with nh, a condition which in the case of circular orbits is equivalent to a quantization of the angular momentum in units h/27r.
In fact, let the potential of such a force be given by = C/r2 , where C is a constant and r the length of the radius vector from the nucleus to the electron. In fact, let us imagine that these fields are slowly established at a uniform rate within a time interval from t = 0 to t = , where is a quantity of the same order as /. In fact, matrices, which represent it is only through the quantum-theoretical methods canonically conjugated variables in the sense of the created in the last few years that the general aims laid Hamiltonian equations, do not obey the commutative down in the principle mentioned have obtained an ade- law of multiplication, but two such quantities, q and 1), quate formulation.
In fact, not only would uni- versal access to full information about scientific dis- coveries be necessary, but every major technical enter- prise, industrial as well as military, would have to be open to international control. In fact, notwithstanding all characteristic differences, the situations we are concerned with in these generalizations of classical theory present striking analogies which have often been noted.
In fact, notwithstanding the insight provided by Newtonian mechanics into the harmony of planetary motions expressed by the Keplerian laws, the stability properties of mechanical models like the solar system which, when disturbed, have no tendency to return to their original state, have clearly no sufficient resemblance with the intrinsic stability of the electronic configura tions of atoms that is responsible for the specific properties of the elements.
In fact, on the correspondence principle this is immediately explained from an examination of the perturbations in the motion of the outer electron which give rise to the appearance in this motionbesides the harmonic components already present in a simple central orbitof a number of constituent harmonic vibrations of new type and of amplitudes proportional to the intensity of the external forces.
In fact, since in these cases we have P = nh/2, where n is the entire number characterising the stationary states of the undisturbed hydrogen atom, it follows from the above that the total energy in the special stationary states under consideration will just be represented by the formula (80), if we put n = n. From this formula it will be seen at the same time, that the presence of the external magnetic field imposes the restriction on the motion in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom, that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to H, the angular momentum of the electron round the axis of the field will be equal to an entire multiple of h/2.
In fact, since the frequency vH is independent of the shape and position of the orbit, we may proceed in a manner which is completely analogous to that applied in the fixation of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom in the presence of a homogeneous electric field. In fact, space frame when the particles passed through it is only the mutual exclusion of any two experi the slits. In fact, such measure- the diaphragm during each collision process with ments of momentum require only an unambigu- the test bodies, the knowledge of its position ous application of the classical law of conservation when the particle passed through the slit.
In fact, such measurements of momentum require only an unambiguous application of the classical law of conservation of momentum, applied for instance to a collision process between the diaphragm and some test body, the momentum of which is suitably controlled before and after the collision.
In fact, taking as starting-point the wave representation of in- if the definition or the energy of the reacting individuals dividual particles and applying a symbolic method closely is to be accurate to such a degree as to entitle us to speak related to the deep-going treatment of the radiation pro- of conservation of energy during the reaction, it is neces- blem developed by Dirac from the point of View of the sary, according to this relation, to coordinate to the re- matrix theory, to which we shall return below.
In fact, the astounding simplicity of the generalisation of classical physical theories, which are obtained by the use of multidimensional geometry and non-commutative algebra, respectively, rests in both cases essentially on the introduction of the conventional symbol sqrt(-1). In fact, the charac- external influence, always will be found in a welldefined teristic solutions of this equation appear as auxiliary state, and which forms the basis for the use of the functions which define a transformation from matrices quantum postulate in problems concerning atomic with indices representing the energy values of the system struc ure.
In fact, the character- individuals is attached to the idea of a harmonic istic solutions of this equation appear as auxiliary elementary wave, every space-time feature of the functions which define -a transformation from description of phenomena is, as we have seen, based matrices with indices representing the energy values on 8 consideration of the interferences taking place of the system to other matrices, the indices of inside a group of such elementary waves. In fact, the congerva- the individuals symbolised through the con- tion of electricity appears in this theory as an ception of light quanta expressed in the so-called analogue to the conservation theorems for energy exclusion principle formulated by Pauli. In fact, the connection in gne - to relation (2).
In fact, the connexion in ques- magnitude of the periods associated with transitions tion means that in the limit of large quantum between stationary states. In fact, the conserva- atomic nuclei. In fact, the consistent applfea- metrical problem represented by the wave equation is tifii of the concept of stationary states excludes, as we , associated with th - 1e - ' es the num- emf see, any gpec1ncation regarding the behaviour of 78 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 79 the separate particles in the atom.
In fact, the consistent application probability of the presence of a electron is of the concept of stationary states excluges, as we expressed by the electric density associated with shall see, any specification regarding the behaviour the wave-field in a similar way to that by which the of the separate particles in the atom. In fact, the difficulties are here so obvious that it would be a waste of time to discuss them in detail. In fact, the element of complacency inherent in every culture corresponds closely to the instinct of self-preservation charac- teristicof any species among the living organisms.
In fact, the individuality of the typical quantum effects finds its proper expression in the circumstance that any attempt of subdividing the phenomena will demand a change in the experimental arrangement introducing new possibilities of interaction between objects and measuring instruments which in principle cannot be controlled. In fact, the introduction of any further piece of apparatus, like a mirror, in the way of a particle might imply new interference effects essentially influencing the predictions as regards the results to be eventually recorded.
In fact, the large chemical similarity between, for instance, aluminium and scandium, both of which are trivalent and pronounced electropositive elements, is directly or indirectly emphasized in the current representations of the periodic table. In fact, the latitude for all feeling of volition is afforded by the very circumstance that the situations in which we can speak of freedom of will are mutually exclusive to those where causal analysis of mental phenomena can reasonably be attempted. In fact, the limited commutability of the symbols by which such vari- ables are represented in the quantal formalism corresponds to the mutual exclusion of the experimental arrangements required for their unambiguous definition.
In fact, the occurrence of each of these transitions is due to the existence of welldefined corresponding constituent harmonic vibration in the central orbits which the outer electron describes in the class of motions to which the stationary states belong. In fact, the removal of one of the inner electrons from the completed atom may, in accordance with the above considerations on the formation of atoms by capture of electrons, give rise to transition processes by which the place of the electron removed is taken by an electron belonging to one of the more loosely bound electron groups of the atom, with the result that after the transition an electron will be lacking in this latter group.
In fact, the renunciation in each experimental arrangement of the one or the other of two aspects of the description of physical phenomena, the combination of which characterizes the method of classical physics, and which therefore in this sense may be considered as complementary to one another, depends essentially on the impossibility, in the field of quantum theory, of accurately controlling the reaction of the object on the measuring instruments, i. e. , the transfer of momentum in case of position measurements, and the displacement in case of momentum measurements.
In fact, the renunciation in one of the particles will automatically determine each experimental arrangement of the one or the the position or momentum, respectively, of the other of two aspects of the description of physical other particle with any desired accuracy; at least phenomena,the combination of which charac- if the wave-length corresponding to the free terizes the method of classical physics, and which motion of each particle is sufficiently short therefore in this sense may be considered as com- compared with the width of the slits.
In fact, the specification of the state of a physical system evidently cannot determine the choice between different individual processes of transition to other states, and an account of quantum effects must thus basically operate with the notion of the probabilities of occurrence of the different possible transition processes. In fact, the transition giving rise to H may be regarded as due to the presence of a harmonic oscillation in the motion of the atom, which is an octave higher than the oscillation giving rise to the emission of H .
In fact, the use of words like thoughts and sentiments, equally indispensable to illustrate the diversity of psychical experience, pertain to mutually exclusive situations characterized by a different drawing of the line of separation between subject and object. In fact, the use which we make of words like "thought" and "feeling," or "instinct" and "reason" to describe psychic experiences of different types, shows the existence of characteristic relationships of complementarity conditioned by the peculiarity of introspection. In fact, the very idea of stationary states is incompatible with any directive for the choice between such transitions and leaves room only for the notion of the relative probabilities of the individual transition processes.
In fact, this discovery proved that the wide applicability of so-called classical physics rests entirely on the circum- stance that the action involved in any phenomena on the ordinary scale is so large that the quantum can be completely neglected. In fact, this precession is so slow that even for the orbits that rotate most rapidly the electron performs about 40,000 revolutions before the perihelion has gone round once. In fact, this tendency may be ascribed to the fact that the orbits of the last captured electrons will find their place within the region, in which the previously captured electrons move in 21 orbits. In fact, this uncertainty cannot in the determination of the velocity, where I be avoided in a description of the behaviour of denotes the length of the wave-train.
In fact, this uncertainty cannot total momentum can only be defined Within the limits be avoided in a deScription of the behaviour of indi- of reciprocal accuracy given by relation (2). In fact, wave mechanics, just as the mitLix instructively the consequences of the quantum postulate the011. In fact, wave our whole space-time view of physical phenomena, mechanics just as the matrix theory on this view as well as the definition of energy and momentum, represents a symbolic transcription of the problem depends ultimately upon these abstractions.
In fact, we are here dealing with a typical example of the statistical mode of description, and the complementary relationship between energy-momentum conservation and time-space co-ordination is most strikingly exhibited in the well-known paradox of particle penetration through potential barriers. In fact, we are led to conceive the proper biological regularities as repre senting laws of nature complementary to those appropriate to the account of the properties of inanimate bodies, in analogy with the complementary relationship between the stability properties of the atoms themselves and such behaviour of their constituent particles as allows of a description in terms of space-time coordination.
In fact, we cannot even enlarge upon this analogy which, when due regard tell which atoms really belong to a living organism, is taken to the special character of biological since any vital function is accompanied by an problems, offers a new starting point for an exchange of material, whereby atoms are constantly elucidation of the so-called psycho-physical taken up into and expelled from the organisation parallelism. In fact, we have Z e e 1 (vA) dt = B, M = (84) c 0 c where is the frequency of revolution of the electron in the osculating orbit, and where B represents the total flux of magnetic force through this orbit, taken in the same direction as that of the magnetic force which would arise from the motion of the electron according to ordinary electrodynamics.
In fact, we have learned that the accustomed pictorial representation of physical events applies only to phenomena in the analysis of which all actions involved are large compared with the individual quantum. In fact, we must realize that in the problem in question we are not dealing with a single specified experimental arrangement, but are referring to two different, mutually exclusive arrangements. In fact, we see that the fixation of the stationary states of the perturbed system is reduced to a problem which is formally analogous to the fixation of these states for a mechanical system of less degrees of freedom. In fact, we shall assume that the fourth, fifth and sixth electrons will be bound in 21 orbits.
In fact, we shall not be concerned with the small deformation of the orbit characterised by the small oscillations of the orbital constants within a time interval of the same order of magnitude as the period of the osculating orbit, but only with the so called secular perturbations of the orbit, characterised by the total variation of these constants taken over a time interval long compared with the period of the osculating orbit. In fact, we termined by the quantum of action. In fact, while an expression of the type (3) holdsfor particles which obey Bose statistics, one finds in first approxi- mation an essentially different formula for an electron in Dirac's hole theory based on the Pauli principle.
In fact, while in case of a magnetic field this would give (n + 1)2 1 different states corresponding to a given value of n, it would in case of an electric field give only (n + 1)2 2 such states.
In fact, with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 , we have s Dk D X Dk = + Dt k Dt k Dt 2 s X = + = 0. k k k k 2 Since at any moment will differ only by small quantities proportional to 2 from the mean value of the potential of the external forces taken over an approximate period of the perturbed motion, it follows from the above that, with neglect of small quantities of this order, also the mean value of the inner energy 1 of the perturbed system, taken over an approximate period, will remain constant during the perturbations, even if the perturbing forces act through a time interval long enough to produce a considerable change in the shape and position of the orbit.
In fact, with reference to the treatment given in 3 of the problem of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines, it will be seen that the deviations of the orbit of the electron from a Keplerian ellipse in the problem under consideration will be the same as the secular perturbations produced on a Keplerian motion by the simultaneous influence of an external homogeneous field of force and an external central force proportional to the inverse cube of the distance from the nucleus. In formal respects Plancks theory leaves much to be desired; in certain calculations the ordinary electrodynamics is used, while in others assumptions distinctly at variance with it are introduced without any attempt being made to show that it is possible to give a consistent explanation of the procedure used.
In general philosophical perspective, it is significant that, as regards analysis and synthesis in other fields of knowledge, we are confronted with situations reminding us of the situation in quantum physics. In general the perturbed system will not allow of separation of variables, but two cases obviously present themselves in which such a separation is still possible; in the first case the external field is central with the fixed point as centre, and a separation is possible in polar coordinates; in the second case the external field of force is perpendicular to a given line and varies as some function of the distance from this line, and separation is possible in a set of rectangular coordinates with the axes parallel and perpendicular to the given line.
In general the presence of such forces will lead to a great complexity of perturbations, and the atom will no longer possess a group of sharply defined stationary states. In general this condition breaks up into two parts, one concerning the fixation of the stationary states, and the other relating to the frequency of the radiation emitted by a transition between these states. In general this effect will consist in a splitting up of each of the spectral lines into a number of components which are displaced from the original position of the line by small quantities proportional to the intensity of the external forces.
In general, however, it will not be possible for the perturbed system to obtain a separation of variables in any set of coordinates, but if the perturbing force is sufficiently small the perturbed motion will again be of conditionally periodic type and may be regarded as a superposition of a number of harmonic vibrations just as the original motion. In general, however, the perturbations, which a periodic system of more than two degrees of freedom undergoes in the presence of a given external field, cannot be expected to be conditionally periodic and to exhibit periodicity properties of the type expressed by formula (54). In general, no stable configuration in which the electrons rotate in circular orbits can exist if the problem of stability is discussed on ordinary mechanics.
In general, the effect on the spectrum will therefore consist in a small displacement of the original components proportional to the intensity of the forces due to the second perturbing field; and as regards the degree of approximation with which these displacements are defined, it will be seen from the above that, if is smaller than , the fixation of the energy in the stationary states in the presence of the second external field, and therefore also the determination of the frequencies of the spectral lines by means of (1), allow of the same degree of approximation as the fixation of the energy in the stationary states of the original perturbed periodic system.
In general, the laws with the space-time co-ordination of observations, conditions for attributing an energy and a momentum the idea of a coincidence of well-defined events in a value to a wave-field by means of formula (1) are much space-time point being replaced by that of unsharply less favourable. In general, the results proved to be as anticipated. In general, the wave group will general mechanical and electrodynamical prin- gradually spread over the whole region of the atom, ciples.
In general, the wave-group will gradu- statio a states idual transition rocess 3 ally spread over the whole region of the atom, and the within their proper field of application possess just as motion of a bound electron can only be followed much or as little reality as the very idea of individual during a number of periods, which is of the order of particles. In general, therefore, it will be impossible to obtain a relation between the frequency of revolution of the electrons and the frequency of the radiation as in the ordinary theory of radiation. In general, this spectrum would be completely different from that given by (26).
In genetics, the early studies by Timofjeev-Ressofskij, Zimmer and Delbriick of the mutations pro- duced by penetrating radiation permitted the first approximate evaluation of the spatial extensions within the chromosomes critical for the stability of the genes. In his Bakerian lecture in 1920 describing the nitrogen transformation and dis- cussing the constitution of atomic nuclei generally Rutherford forecasted a much more effective 'bullet' for the shattering of atoms-the neutron.
In his attempts to give an interpretation of this result, Einstein was led to the formulation of the so-called "hypothesis of light-quanta according to which the radiant energy, in contradiction to Maxwell's electromagnetic theory of light, would not be propagated as electromagnetic waves, but rather as concrete light atoms, each with an energy equal to that of a quantum of radiation.
In his fundamental application of the quantum theory to the spectrum of a non-periodic system Sommerfeld assumed therefore that the stationary states of the above system are given by two conditions of the form: Z Z I1 = p1 dq1 = n1 h, I2 = p2 dq2 = n2 h. (16) While the first integral obviously must be taken over a period of the radial motion, there might at first sight seem to be a difficulty in fixing the limits of integration of q2 .
In his invest-i%asstions already mentioned on the In the language of the relativity theory, the consistency of the quantum theoretical methods, content of the re%ztions (2) may be gummarised in Heisenberg has given the relation (2) as an ex- the statement that according to the quantum pression for the maximum precision with which theory a general reciprocal relation exists between the space-time co-ordinates and momentum- the maximum sharpness of definition of the space- energy components of a particle can be measured time and energy-momentum vectors associated simultaneously. In his new paper Coster has established a similar classification for the lighter elements.
In his novel, called The Adventures of a Danish Student, the author gives a remarkably vivid and suggestive account of the interplay between the various aspects of our position, illuminated by discussions within a circle of students with different characters and divergent atti- tudes to life. In his oa-ray experiments Rutherford used a rather ancient T6pler pump for extracting the air. In his opinion the theory leads to a broadening of the hydrogen lines in an electric field, instead of the appearance of the homogeneous components observed by Stark. In his own letters, Rutherford also gave a vivid description of how, in spite of the increasing difficulties and the pres- sure of other obligations, he strove to continue his investigations in various directions.
In his reply the cousin says : I cannot in any way help you in sorting your many "I"s. It is quite out- side my sphere of action, and I should either be or become as mad as you if I let myself in for your superhuman reveries. In his second paper Kossel investigates the possibilities for an explanation of the periodic system on the basis of the atomic theory. In his theory of the structure of series spectra of the type exhibited by the alkali metals, Sommerfeld has made the assumption that the orbit of the outer electron to a first approximation possesses the same character as that produced by a simple perturbing central field whose intensity diminishes rapidly with increasing distance from the nucleus. In his third year he qualified B.A.
In his work on the Xray spectra Sommerfeld at an earlier period regarded this increase in the atomic volumes as supporting the assumption that the principal quantum number of the orbit of the valency electrons increases by unity as we pass from one metal to the next in the family. In how many similar cases of scientists taking up Dominion or Colonial appointments has the appointee been unable to overcome the initial difficulty of starting work quickly enough to keep up with the frontier of advance in their particular specialization and settle back to the useful but less inspiring position of being a teacher only?
In hydrogen gas at ordinary conditions for instance there is no absorption of a radiation of a frequency corresponding to the line-spectrum of this gas ; such an absorption is only observed in hydrogen gas in a luminous state. In individual atomic processes, however, we meet with regularities of a novel kind, responsible for the peculiar stability of atomic systems on which all properties of matter ultimately depend.
In intimate connection with the general want of definition of the energy in the stationary states for perturbed systems of the type in question, we must accordingly be prepared to find that, in contrast to the strong components, for which we may expect that by far the larger part of the intensity is contained within a spectral interval of a width proportional to 2 , the new components will be diffused over spectral intervals of a width proportional to .1 ) Thus, in case the effect of the exter1 ) Compare Note on page 119. In its roots this problem is as old as physical science itself.
In just this respect a great advance was achieved in the following years by the introduction of quantum numbers specifying components THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 47 of angular momenta and other action integrals. In k the stationary states this distance is simply equal to times n half the major axis of the orbit. In letters to me in January and February, 1920, Rutherford expressed his joy in Aston's work, par- ticularly about the chlorine isotopes which so clearly illustrated the statistical character of the deviations of chemical atomic weights from integral values. In logical respect, such a situation is well known from dis- cussions about psychological and social problems where many words have been used in a complementary manner since the very origin of language.
In many cases, however, the effect of that part of the electrodynamical forces which is connected with the emission of radiation will at any moment be very small in comparison with the effect of the simple electrostatic attractions or repulsions of the charged particles corresponding to Coulombs law. In many cases, however, these constants may be simply determined from considerations of mechanical transformability of the stationary states, and as pointed out by Burgers (loc. In many respects the reports and discussions at the conference were most illuminating.
In modern history of physics and chemistry, few events have from the outset attracted such general interest as Moseley's discovery of the simple laws allowing an unambiguous assignment of the atomic number to any element from its high-frequency spectrum. In most cases, however, simple numerical relations are found to exist between the distance of the components observed and that calculated by Lorentz. In most of the other physical phenomena, however, we only observe the atoms of the matter in a single distinct state, i. e. the state of the atoms at low temperature. In much the same way the effect of an electric field upon the series spectra of the elements may be treated directly by investigating the perturbations of the external electron.
In my first paper on the subject I attempted to sketch a theory of the structure of atoms and of molecules of chemical compounds. In my opinion, there could be no other way to deem a logically consistent mathematical formalism as inadequate than by demonstrating the departure of its consequences from experience or by proving that its predictions did not exhaust the possibilities of observation, and Einstein's argumentation could be directed to neither of these ends. In my previous paper it was attempted to apply the main principles of this theory by introducing the following general assumptions: A.
In my previous papers an attempt was made in certain cases to overcome this difficulty by assuming, that if a very small alteration of the forces would make circular orbits possible on ordinary mechanics, the configuration and energy of the actual system would only differ very little from that calculated for the altered system. In of motion of classical mechanics adapted to the judging the applications of these auxiliary ideas requirements of quantum theory and only to be we should only demand inner consistency, in which interpreted by an explicit use of the quantum connexion special regard has to be paid to the postulate.
In offering a frame wide enough to allow a harmonious synthesis of the peculiar regularities of atomic phenomena, the conception of complementarity may be regarded as a rational generalization of the very ideal of causality. In one case, the results look promising but a great deal of work will be required to make sure. In order not to complicate the figure, no attempt has been made to draw any of the orbits of these inner electrons, but the region in which they move is enclosed by a dotted circle. In order that the inquiry may augment common knowledge, it is an obvious demand that the recording of observations as well as the construction and handling of the apparatus, necessary for the definition of the experimental conditions, be described in plain language.
In order that the large orbits of the electrons may not be disturbed by electrical forces from the neighbouring atoms the pressure will have to be very low, so low, indeed, that it is impossible to obtain sufficient light from a Geissler tube of ordinary dimensions. In order that the principal points may stand out as clearly as possible I shall, before considering the more complicated types of series spectra, first consider the simplest spectrum, namely, the series spectrum of hydrogen. In order to account for Kircbhoff's law i t is necessary to introduce assumptions on the mechanism of absorption of radiation wldch correspond to those we have used considering the emission.
In order to account for the appearance of the continuous spectrum, it is necessary to assume that the motions in the latter states are not restricted by extra-mechanical conditions of the type holding for the former states, but that all motions, which are consistent with the application of ordinary mechanics, will represent physically possible states. In order to account for the properties of the elements in the second half of the second period it will first of all be necessary to show why the configuration of ten electrons occurring in the neutral atom of neon possesses such a remarkable degree of stability. In order to agree with the measurements of the size of the atoms he also assumed that these electrons moved in 21 orbits.
In order to appreciate the possibilities which this new outlook in natural philosophy provides with respect to a rational attitude towards the fundamental problems of biology, it will, however, be necessary to recall briefly the principal lines of the development which has led to the elucidation of the situation in atomic theory. In order to avoid logical inconsistencies in the ac count of this unfamiliar situation, great care in all questions of terminology and dialectics is obviously imperative. In order to calculate this frequency it appears necessary to consider in detail the mutual effect of all three electrons, at all events for that part of the orbit where the outer electron is very close to the other two electrons.
In order to determine c let us now consider the passing of the system between two successive stationary states corre- sponding to r = N and T=I~ I ; introducing f(r)=cr, we get [br the frequency of the radiation emitted 7r~me~E~ 2N 1 For the frequency of revolution of the electron before and after the emission we bare ~-=meaE-~ ~-2me~E~ to~= 2caha~.~ and ~ _ x = 2cah~(N_t)a. In order to determine the stationary states we shall, as in the former section, seek a connexion with ordinary electrodynamics in the region of slow vibrations.
In order to discuss this question we shall first deduce a general expression for the energy difference between two neighbouring states of a conditionally periodic system, which can be simply obtained by a calculation analogous to that used in 2 in the deduction of the relation (8). In order to emphasize the progressive change the table includes the probable arrangement of electrons in the next atom which would possess properties like the inactive gases.
In order to examine the general problem of the secular perturbations of the orbit of the electron in the hydrogen atom which take place if the atom is exposed to small external forces which, entirely or partly, are of magnetic origin, we shall, as in the usual theory of planetary perturbations, take our starting point in the equations of motion in their canonical form. In order to explain the appearance of line spectra we are compelled to assume that the emission of radiation by an atomic system takes place in such a manner that it is not possible to follow the emission in detail by means of the usual conceptions.
In order to explain the properties of the elements of the sixth period Langmuir assumes for instance that, in addition to the inner layers of cells containing 2, 8, 8, 18 and 18 electrons respectively, which are employed to account for the properties of the elements in the earlier periods, the atom also possesses a layer of cells with room for 32 electrons which is just completed in the case of niton. In order to find the effect of the field on the energy of the atom in the different stationary states, we shall seek for its influence on the relation between the energy and the frequency of the system. In order to fix our ideas, let us for a moment consider the helium atom.
In order to fix the stationary states in the presence of both fields and the change in the additional energy of the atom due to the presence of the weaker field, it will thus, as mentioned on page 121, be necessary to examine the relation between the mean value in question and the frequency of the slow periodic secular variations which the cycles under consideration will undergo under the influence of the weaker of the external fields. In order to fix the stationary states of systems in the presence of a given conservative external field of force, we shall have to investigate, on the basis of the principle of correspondence, how these forces affect the decomposition of the motion into harmonic oscillations.
In order to fix the stationary states, it will now be seen in the first place that, among the multitude of states of the perturbed system for which the value of I in the corresponding states of the undisturbed system is equal to nh where n is a given positive integer, the state for which I = 0 must beforehand be expected to be a stationary state. In order to get a closer comparison with experiments, it is necessary to consider more complicated systems. In order to give as clear an idea as possible of the new epistomological situation which we meet in atomic physics, we may briefly consider those measurements designed to obtain an account of the space-time course of some physical event.
In order to illustrate this important point, I shall allow myself to quote a Danish poet and philosopher, Poul Martin M011er, who lived about a hundred years ago and left behind an unfinished novel still read with delight by the older as well as the younger generation in this country. In order to illustrate this point we shall have to consider more carefully the stationary states connected with the origin of a series spectrum. In order to illustrate this, let us take the simple case of a degenerate system formed by an electrified particle moving in a plane orbit in a central field, the stationary states of which are given by the two conditions (16).
In order to investigate this problem we shall seek a connexion with ordinary mechanics in the region of slow vibrations, from analogy with the procedure of the former sections. In order to make the argument first and a photographic plate,is rigidly fixed to this end as clear as possible, I shall first to a support which defines the space frame of consider in some detail a few simple examples of reference. In order to make the argument to this end as clear as possible, I shall first consider in some detail a few simple examples of measuring arrangements. In order to obtain a connection with the ordinary electrodynamics let us now place this frequency equal to the frequency of revolution, that is n = 2Rc/n3 .
In order to obtain a mechanical interpretation of the above-mentioned stationary states, let us now in (6) put According to this view, a line of the hydrogen spectrum is emitted during the passage of the atom between two stationary states corresponding to different values for. In order to obtain the continuity necessary for a connexion with ordinary electrodynamics, we have assumed that the system can pass only between the different states in each series. In order to obtain the necessary connection, mentioned in the former section, to the ordinary theory of radiation in the limit of slow vibrations, we must further claim that a relation, as that just proved for the frequencies, will, in the limit of large n, hold also for the intensities of the different lines in the spectrum.
In order to obtain the necessary relation to the ordinary theory of radiation in the limit of slow vibrations, we are therefore led directly to certain conclusions about the probability of transition between two stationary states in this limit. In order to show that this agrees with the empirical rule of Epstein, it may be noted in the first place that, for any component which might be ascribed to a certain transition in which n3 changes by a given entire number of units, there exists always another transition which will give rise to a radiation of the same frequency but in which n3 remains unchanged or changes by one unit, according to whether the given number is even or uneven. In order to show this we must consider more closely the fixation of the motion of a perturbed hydrogen atom.
In order to test how far such a connection is actually brought out by the observations, it is necessary to determine the numerical values of the amplitudes of the harmonic vibrations into which the motion of the electron can be resolved. In order, however, to obtain a theoretical connection between these values and the experimental evidence about the constitution of the atom obtained from other sources, it is necessary to introduce further assumptions about the laws which govern the stationary states of a given atomic system and the transitions between these states.
In order, therefore, to obtain the connexion with the ordinary mechanics and at the same time to be in agreement with experiment, we are led to assume that the effect of a magnetic field on the stationary states of the hydrogen atom consists simply in a superposed rotation of frequency round the axis of the field, and that the radiation emitted by the transition between two stationary states is changed by the field so as to have the polarization and frequencies of a Zeeman triplet. In other cases when we wish to estimate the relative intensities of two spectral lines it is clearly necessary to take into consideration the relative number of atoms which are present in each of the two stationary states from which the transitions start.
In other pronouncements to other audiences he was more cautious. In other words, the stability of the orbit is so slight, even if the variation in the mass is taken into account, that small external forces are in a position to change the eccentricity in the course of time to a finite extent. In other words, when we use the phrase "I will" we renounce explanatory argumentation. In our century the immense progress of the sciences has not only greatly advanced technology and medicine, but has at the same time given us an unsuspected lesson about our position as observers of that nature of which we are part ourselves. In our days, physical technology has provided radiologists with ever more effective tools.
In our discussion of the applicability of In tracing this analogy further, however, we mechanical concepts in describing living organisms, must not forget that the problems present essenwe have considered these just as other material tially different aspects in physics and in biology. In our discussion we have so far considered living organisms as objects under investigation, in a way similar to that in which we strive to comprehend experience of any other part of nature. In par- ticular, they investigated a novel type of atomic reaction connected with perturbations caused by radiation fields.
In particu- lar, I attempted to stress that just the mutual open- ness, which now was obviously necessary for common security, would in itself promote international under- standing and pave the way for enduring cooperation. In particul11r, the place left for the feeling of volition is afforded by the very circumstance that situations where we experi. In particular Heisenberg's conception implied that the phenomenon of (3-ray decay be considered as evidence of the creation of positive or negative electrons and neutrinos under release of energy in the accom- panying change of a neutron to a proton, or vice versa. In particular it is seen that the final result of the binding process leads to a quite definite stationary state of the atom, namely that state for which n = 1.
In particular it may be shown that, if the momentum of the diaphragm is measured with an accuracy sufficient for allowing definite conclusions regarding the passage of the particle through some selected slit of the second diaphragm, then even the minimum uncertainty of the position of the first diaphragm compatible with such a knowledge will imply the total wiping out of any interference effect regarding the zones of permitted impact of the particle on the photographic plate to which the presence of more than one slit in the second diaphragm would give rise in case the positions of all apparatus are fixed relative to each other. In particular it may be trolled before and after the collision.
In particular it should not be forgotten that the concept of causality underlies the very interpretation of each result of experiment, and that even in the co6rdination of experience one can never, in the nature of things, have to do with well-defined breaks in the causal chain. In particular it was my intention to show that, in spite of the fundamental differences between these points of view and the ordinary conceptions of the phenomena of radiation, it still appears possible on the basis of the general correspondence between the spectrum and the motion in the atom to employ these conceptions in a certain sense as guides in the investigation of the spectra.
In particular the radiation emitted according to the classical theory by an electron revolving in a circular orbit possesses an angular momentum and the energy E and the angular momentum P of the radiation emitted during a certain time are connected by the relation E = 2 P. (26) Here represents the frequency of revolution of the electron, and according to the classical theory this is equal to the frequency of the radiation. In particular, a starting point was offered by the closer comparison between an oscillator of given frequency and the Keplerian motion of an electron around a nucleus, with a frequency of revolution depending on the binding energy.
In particular, a strong support for the idea of the atomic number as determining the general physical properties of the elements was obtained from spectroscopic investigations by Russell and Rossi of mixtures of ionium and thorium, which pointed to the identity of the optical spectra of these two substances in spite of their different radio- active properties and atomic weights. In particular, any imaginable procedure aiming at the coordina tion in space and time of the electrons in an atom will unavoidably involve an essentially uncontrollable exchange of momentum and energy between the atom and the measuring agencies, entirely annihilating the remarkable regularities of atomic stability for which the quantum of action is respon sible.
In particular, as early as 1911, he had conceived the ingenious tracer method which has since become so powerful a tool in chemical and THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 33 biological research. In particular, he ascribed the KOL and Kft components of Moseley's spectra to individual transition processes by which the electron lacking in the K-shell is replaced by one of the electrons in the L- and M-shells, respectively. In particular, he early took deep interest in the possibility of arriving at an estimate of the age of the earth and of understanding the thermal equilibrium in the crust of our planet. In particular, he early took deep interest in the possibility of arriving at an estimate of the age of the earth and of understanding the thermal equilibrium m the crust of our planet.
In particular, he has stressed the period and wave-length, and hence also in the defini- peculiar reciprocal uncertainty which affects all tion of the corresponding energy and momentum measurements of atomic quantities. In particular, he lementa ways. In particular, it appeared that the spectra changed from element to element in a manner that corresponded closely to the formula given above for the spectrum emitted during the binding of an electron to a nucleus, provided N was put equal to the atomic number of the element concerned.
In particular, it must be realised that besides in the account of the placing and timing of the instruments forming the experimental arrangement all unambiguous use of space-time concepts in the description of atomic phenomena is confined to the recording of observations which refer to marks on a photographic plate or to similar practically irreversible amplification effects like the building of a water drop around an ion in a cloud-chamber. In particular, it was evident that THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 45 Moseley's laws offered an unerring guide in the search for as yet un- discovered elements fitting into vacant places in the series of atomic numbers.
In particular, phenomena observed under different experimental arrangements cannot be directly compared, but must be regarded as complementary in the sense that only together do they exhaust all obtainable knowledge regarding the objects. In particular, such considerations served to clarify the apparent contrast between the superposition principle in wave mechanics and the postulate of the individuality of the elementary quantum processes. In particular, the conditions of analysis and synthesis of so-called psychic experiences have always been an important problem in philo- sophy.
In particular, the contrasts met with here, hitherto so unfamiliar in physics, emphasize the necessity, well known in other domains of experience, to take into consideration the con- ditions under which the experience has been obtained. In particular, the frustration of every attempt to analyse more closely the "individuality" of single atomic processes, symbolized by the quantum of action, by a subdivision of their course, is explained by the fact that each section in this course definable by a direct observation would demand a measuring arrangement which would be incompatible with the appearance of the uniformities considered.
In particular, the general relationship between energy and mass, expressed in Einstein's famous formula E = mc2, (5) should allow, by means of simple weighing, to measure the total energy of any system and, thus, in principle to control the energy transferred to it when it interacts with an atomic object. In particular, the idea of individual stationary vibration, represents the electrostatic and magnetic pro- states would be an illusion and its applicability only an perties Of an atom in the corresponding stationary state.
In particular, the individuality of the typical quantum effects finds proper expression in the circumstance that any attempt at subdividing the phenomena will demand a change in the experimental arrangement, introducing new sources of uncontrollable interaction between ob jects and measuring instruments. In particular, the much discussed im- possibility of measuring the magnetic moment of a free electron by ordinary magnetometers is directly evident from the fact that in Dirac's theory the spin and magnetic moment do not result from any alteration in the basic Hamiltonian equation of motion, but appear as consequences of the peculiar non-commutative character of the operator calculus.
In particular, the study of the way in which the ground states of the atoms could be built up by the successive bindings of the electrons to the nucleus led to a gradual elucidation of the shell structure of the electronic configuration in the atom. In particular, the well-known investi- gations of Bowen led to the recognition that the origin of the nebular spectra discussed by Nicholson had to be sought not in new hypotheti- cal elements, but in atoms of oxygen and nitrogen in a highly ionized state. In particular, the widegoing obliteration of the distinc- tion between organic and inorganic chemistry has raised anew the old problem of the extent to which the physical sciences can account for the display of life.
In particular, this assumption offered an immediate explanation of the apparently capricious appear- ance of emission and absorption lines in series spectra. In particular, this situation left room for the proper formulation of the Pauli exclusion principle, which not only gave the final elucidation of the periodicity relations in Mendeleev's table, but in the following years proved fertile for the understanding of most of the varied aspects of the atomic constitution of matter. In particular, we admire the Greek mathematicians, who in many respects laid the firm foundation on which later generations have built.
In perfect analogy with the general considerations in Part I, we are therefore led directly to certain simple conclusions as regards the intensities and polarisations of the components into which the lines of the spectrum of the undisturbed periodic system are split up in the presence of the external field. In perimental arrangements under consideration is, the first eventuality we need only to make a however, that in the arrangement suited for the second determination of the momentum of the control of the momentum of the first diaphragm, diaphragm, leaving unknown forever its exact this body can no longer be used as a measuring position when the particle passed.
In physics, causal description, originally adapted to the problems of mechanics, rests on the assumption that the knowledge of the state of a material system at a given time permits the prediction of its state at any subsequent time!l. In pointing to the intimate connection between the statistical description in quantum mechanics and the actual possibilities of measurement, this so-called indeterminacy relation is, as Heisenberg showed, most important for the elucidation of the paradoxes involved in the attempts of analysing quantum effects with reference to customary physical pictures.
In preliminary consultations between the governments with the primary purpose of inspiring confidence and relieving disquietude, it should be necessary only to bring up the problem of what the' attituae of each partner would be if the prospects opened up by the pfog'f.~ss of physical science, which in outline are aomnon knowledge, should be realized to an extent whi& would necessitate exceptional action. In presenting here views which impressed them- selves at an early stage on a scientist who had the opportunity to follow developments at close hand I am acting entirely on my own responsibility and with- out consultation with the government of any country. In private life his lovable nature manifested itself and he was ever doing unostentatious kindnesses to visitors and neighbours.
In problems probability of the presence of a light quantum is where a description of this behaviour is essential, given by the energy density of the radiation. In problems where a of observation the interaction between the particles, desicription of this baiaviour is essential, we are bound thus regarding them as free. In quantum physics, however, evidence about atomic objects obtained by different experimental arrangements exhibits a novel kind of complementary relationship.
In quantum theory, it was argued, the logical comprehension of hitherto unsuspected fundamental regularities governing atomic phenomena has demanded the recognition that no sharp separation can be made between an independent behaviour of the objects and their interaction with the measuring instruments which define the reference frame. In reconsidering this conjecture from our present standpoint, it must be kept in mind that the task of biology cannot be that of accounting for the fate of each of the innumerable atoms permanently or temporarily included in a living organism.
In recording this more recent history of the steps leading to atomic energy I am sure you will have been struck, as I have, with the interplay of the various stages of development between workers in many different countries. In regard to the correspondence problem, it was above all essential that every solution of the Schrodinger equation could be represented as a super- position of harmonic eigenfunctions, thus making it possible to follow in detail how the motion of particles can be compared to the propaga- tion of wave packets.
In relation to it was this point, argued that, owing to the dependence in quantum physics of the scattering cross-section on the reduced mass of the colliding particles, this fact would not be inconsistent even with the assumption of short-range interaction between the neutron and an electron of strength similar to that between the neutron and a THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 67 proton. In relativistic argumentation, such objectivity is secured by due regard to the dependence of the phenomena on the reference frame of the observer, while in complementary description all subjectivity is avoided by proper attention to the circumstances required for the well-defined use of elementary physical concepts.
In relativity theory, the emphasis on the dependence of all phenomena on the reference frame opened quite new ways of tracing general physical laws of unparalleled scope. In removing obstacles to mutual confidence, an agreement on this vital matter should certainly go far in furthering a harmonious relationship between nations. In rendering some of my recollections from the old days, it has above all been on my mind to stress how the close collaboration among a whole generation of physicists from many countries succeeded step by step in creating order in a vast new domain of knowledge.
In representing a generalization of classical me chanics suited .to allow for the existence of the quan tum of action, quantum mechanics offers a frame suffi ciently wide to account for empirical regularities which cannot be comprised in the classical way of description. In section 2 we assumed that the effect of an external electric field is to increase the eccentricity of the orbit of the electron and to direct the major-axis parallel to the electric force.
In securing the opening of the hole at a definite moment, an apparatus of this type might, for instance, be used for an accurate measurement of the time an electron or a photon takes to come from the diaphragm to some other place, but evidently, it would leave no possibility of controlling the energy transfer to the shutter with the aim of drawing conclusions as to the energy of the particle which has passed through the diaphragm. In several respects the theory was supported by experiment, especially in the general way in which the properties of the elements change with increasing atomic number, shown most clearly by Moseleys results.
In sociology, too, such dialectics may often be useful, particularly in problems confronting us in the study and comparison of human cultures, where we have to cope with the element of complacency in herent in every national culture and manifesting itself in prejudices which obviously cannot be appreciated from the standpoint of other nations. In some respects he was more fortunate than Newton; Rutherford was ever the happy warrior-happy in his work, happy in its outcome, and happy in its human contact.' In special cases in which the secular perturbations of a perturbed periodic system of more than two degrees of freedom are of conditionally periodic type, it may occur that these perturbations are characterised by a number of fundamental frequencies, which is less than s 1.
In spite of Chadwick's urge to start the construction of accelerator, Rutherford was an appropriate embark upon such a great and expen- during several years reluctant to This attitude is quite understandable sive enterprise in his laboratory. In spite of all differences of scale and function, we are here faced with a far-reaching similarity between living organisms and automatic machines. In spite of its heuristic value, however, the hypothesis of light-quanta, which is quite irreconcilable with so-called interference phenomena, is not able to throw light on the nature of radiation. In spite of promising advances in various directions there was, however, a general understanding that one stood before the beginning of a development where new theoretical view- points were needed.
In spite of the dissimilarity between these spectra, Rydberg succeeded in tracing a certain general relationship between the hydrogen spectrum and other spectra. In spite of the far-reaching understanding, thus obtained, of the physical and chemical aspect of many typical biological reactions, the marvellous fineness of structure of the organisms go still so far beyond any experience about inanimate nature that we feel as removed as ever from an explanation of life itself on such lines. In spite of the great chemical similarity the members of this family exhibit very different magnetic properties, so that while some of them exhibit but very little magnetism others exhibit a greater magnetic moment per atom than any other element which has been investigated.
In spite of the great difference in the properties of the elements of this period, compared with those of the preceding period, the completion of the group of 18 electrons in 3quanta orbits in the fourth period may to a certain extent be said to have the same characteristic results as the completion of the group of 2quanta orbits in the second period. In spite of the great formal similarity between the Xray spectra and the hydrogen spectrum indicated by these results a farreaching difference must be assumed to exist between the processes which give rise to the appearance of these two types of spectra.
In spite of the great progress achieved by Sommerfeld and his school with their supreme mastery of the methods, developed by Hamilton and Jacobi, for treating mechanical systems in terms of invariant action quantities, the problem of incorporating the quantum of action in a consistent generalization of classical physics still contained deep-lying difficulties. In spite of the great progress involved in these investigations many difficulties of fundamental nature remained unsolved, not only as regards the limited applicability of the methods used in calculating the frequencies of the spectrum of a given system, but especially as regards the question of the polarisation and intensity of the emitted spectral lines.
In spite of the initial success of such considerations, serious doubts about the adequacy of the underlying assumptions had, however, gradually arisen. In spite of the primitive conditions, mutual education and the provision of schools for children were pursued to a degree which is well nigh astonishing, for in addition to a public, mainly residential secondary school-Nelson College- established in 1856 and endowed from land reserves, the primary school system was a model to the rest of the colony. In spite of this beautiful and promising result, it has nevertheless become apparent that the electromagnetic theory is incapable of explaining the law of temperature radiation.
In such a case the stationary states will be characterised by a number of conditions less than the number of degrees of freedom, and the probability of a given state must be determined from the number of different stationary states of some non-degenerate system which will coincide in the given state, if the latter system is continuously transformed into the degenerate system under consideration. In such a case we cannot obtain a complete fixation of the stationary states, and we may conclude that the presence of the external forces will not give rise to the splitting up of the hydrogen lines into a number of sharp components but to a diffusion of these lines. In such a case we must expect that the perturbed system will not possess any sharply separated stationary states.
In such a state the effect of the relativity modifications on the motion of the electron would be considerable, but quite apart from this a rough calculation shows that the amount of energy, which, on ordinary electrodynamics, would be emitted during the intervals in which the angular momentum during the perturbations of the orbit remains small, is so large that it would hardly seem justifiable to calculate the motion and the energy in these states by neglecting all forces corresponding to the radiation forces in ordinary electrodynamics.
In such a system we get on the ordinary mechanics the following equations for the frequency of revolution and the major axis of the relative orbit of the particles where and are the charges, and the masses of the nucleus and the electron respectively, and where is the amount of energy to be transferred to the system in order to remove the electron to an infinite distance from the nucleus. In such an arrangement, where the knowledge of the relative positions of the diaphragms and the photographic plate is secured by a rigid connection, it is obviously impossible to control the momentum exchanged between the particle and the separate parts of the apparatus.
In such cases it seems impossible to define stationary states in a way which leads to a complete fixation of the total energy in these states, and we are therefore led to the conclusion, that the effect of the external field on the spectrum will not consist in the splitting up of the spectral lines of the original system into a number of sharp components, but in a diffusion of these lines over spectral intervals of a width proportional to the intensity of the external forces. In such cases we must assume that no stationary states exist corresponding to the combinations (n1 , n2 , .
In such cases, in which the perturbed periodic system from analogy with the terminology used in Part I may be said to be degener ate, the necessary relation between the additional energy and the frequencies of the secular perturbations is secured by a number of conditions less than that given by (55), and the stationary states are consequently characterised by a number of conditions less than s. With a typical example of such systems we meet if, for a perturbed periodic system of more than two degrees of freedom, the secular perturbations are simply periodic independent of the initial shape and position of the orbit.
In such context it is, however, to realize that the mutually exclusive charac- important teristics of cultures, resting on traditions fostered by historical events, cannot be immediately compared to those met with in physics, psychol- ogy and ethics, where we are dealing with intrinsic features of the common human situation. In such conversations one was never tempted to overrate the interest of one's own contributions, since Rutherford after a long day's work was apt to fall asleep as soon as the discourse seemed point- less to him. In such on versation one was never tempted to overrate the intoerest of one's own contnbut1os since Rutherford after a long day's work was apt to fall asleep as soon as the dis course seemed pointless to him.
In such respect, the situation has been radically changed in our days by the construction of amplification devices such as cloud chambers and the counter mechanisms originally developed by Rutherford and Geiger in connection with their measurements of the numbers and charges of oc-particles. In such terminology, the observational problem is free of any special intricacy since, in actual experiments, all observations are expressed by unambiguous statements referring, for instance, to the registration of the point at which an electron arrives at a photographic plate.
In support of this assumption Ladenburg not only mentions the chemical properties of the elements in the fourth period, but also refers to the paramagnetism and colours which occur exactly in the elements, where this intermediate layer should be in development. In support of this view, SchrOdingQr, which was already known from the older methods, but in a recent paper, emphasizes the fact that the discon- at first did not seem to appear in the matrix formulation. In that case all the Fourier coefficients in the expressions for the displacements in any direction will disappear if more than one of the s are different from zero.
In that case it further results compatible with the fact that the probahility of from the expressions of these variables in terms of (@1) the particle reaching a given element of area on and (g2p2), namely Qi=g1cos 8+92 8ind, Py=p, sin 8+py cos 0, this plate is determined not by the presence of any particular slit, but by the positions of all that a subsequent measurement of either g or s will allow us to predict the value of or 1 respectively. In that case it further results from the expressions of these variables in terms of (qP) and (g2p2), namely Qg =Qy cos 8+$2 sin 0, P2 p sin 8+p2 cos 8, that a subsequent measurement of either q2 or p2 will allow us to predict the value of g& or p& respectively.
In that case we may for the varied motion take an undisturbed motion of the system corresponding to slightly different initial conditions. In that case we may in (8) for E put E 0 E 00 and for I put I 0 I 00 , and we get therefore from (1) and (10) for the frequency of the radiation emitted or absorbed during the transition between the two states = 1 0 (E E 00 ) = (I 0 I 00 ) = (n0 n00 ). In that connec- tion, Rutherford took an interest in what news I could give from the Continent, and in particular of my first personal contact with Sommer- feld and Ehrenfest. In the 6th period, however, we meet new features.
In the Institute in Copenhagen, where through those years a number of young physicists from various countries came together for discussions, we used, when in trouble, often to comfort ourselves with jokes, among them the old saying of the two kinds of truth. In the Warsaw lecture, I commented upon the use of not directly visualisable symbolism in relativity and quantum theory in the following way: Even the formalisms, which in both theories within their scope offer adequate means of comprehending all conceivable experience, exhibit deep-going analogies.
In the above considerations we have by an atomic system tacitly understood a number of electrified particles which move in a field of force which, with the approximation mentioned, possesses a potential depending only on the position of the particles. In the above way of representing the general theory we have followed the same procedure as used by Epstein. In the accompanying table (Fig. In the atom of this element, in addition to the groups of electrons of two 1quantum, eight 2quanta, eighteen 3quanta, thirtytwo 4quanta and eighteen 5quanta orbits respectively, there is also an outer symmetrical configuration of eight electrons in 6quanta orbits, which we shall assume to consist of two subgroups with four electrons each in 61 and 62 orbits respectively.
In the autumn of 1913, another stir among physicists was created by Stark's discovery of the surprisingly large effect of electric fields on the structure of the lines in the hydrogen spectrum. In the beginning of 1944, I was given the oppor- tunity to bring such views to the attention of the ~~~~i~~~ and ~~iti~h governments. In the beginning, however, a certain lack of clarity remained con- cerning the mutual relationship between the apparently so different mathematical treatments of the quantum problems. In the calculation the repulsion from the other electrons in the ring was neglected. In the calculations on page 5 we have further made use 8 Dr. N. Bohr on the Constitution of the more special assumptions, viz.
In the case of a magnetic field it is found that the quantity which determines the change of energy of the system is the area of the projection of the orbit upon a plane perpendicular to the magnetic force. In the case of a magnetic field, however, it is found necessary to modify the third assumption in order to retain the connexion with ordinary electrodynamics in the region of slow vibrations. In the case of a perturbing central force the correspondence between the spectrum and the motion which is required by the quantum theory leads now to the simple condition that in the stationary states of the perturbed system the minor axis of the rotating orbit is k simply equal to times the major axis.
In the case of an electric field it is assumed that no alterations in the above assumptions take place. In the case of an electric field the distance from the nucleus to the plane in which the centre of the orbit moves determines the change in the energy of the system due to the presence of the field. In the case of an electric field, however, no effect proportional to its intensity was to be expected for the radiation emitted by a harmonic oscillator, and Stark's discovery therefore definitely excluded the con- ventional idea of elastic vibrations of electrons as the origin of line spectra.
In the case of hydrogen Ritz assumed that formula (1) was a special case of the general formula 1 1 1 =R , (3) n21 n22 and therefore predicted among other things a series of lines in the infrared given by the formula 1 1 1 =R . In the case of lithium brilliant scintillations are observed, beginning at about 125,000 volts and mounting up very rapidly with voltage when many hundreds per minute can be obtained with a protonic current of a few milliamperes. In the case of quantum phenomena, the unlimited divisibility of events implied in such an account is, in principle, excluded by the requirement to specify the experimental conditions. In the case of sodium vapour this means from the first state in the first row to the first state in the second row.
In the case of the 16th, 17th and 18th electrons the conditions are similar to those for the 15th. In the case of the Stark effect, where, on the other hand, the classical theory was completely at a loss, the quantum theory explanation could be so extended with the help of the correspondence principle as to account for the polarization of the different components into which the lines are split, and also for the characteristic intensity distribution exhibited by the components.
In the case of the hydrogen atom, not only did this method lead to a remarkably simple determination of the energies of the stationary states, but Schrodinger also showed that the superposition of any two proper solutions corresponded to a distribution of electric charge and current in the atom,which on classical electrodynamics would give rise to the emission and resonance absorption of a monochromatic radiation of a frequency coinciding with some line of the hydrogen spectrum. In the case of the incomplete seventh period the full drawn frame indicates the third stage in the development of the electronic group with 6quanta orbits, which must begin in actinium.
In the case under consideration one of these may be so chosen that to a very close approximation it will determine the energy of the atom in the same manner as the quantum number previously used determined the energy in the case of a simple elliptical orbit. In the cases of degeneration referred to above, however, the conditions (22) involve an ambiguity, since in general for such systems there will exist an infinite number of different sets of coordinates which allow of a separation of variables, and which will lead to different motions in the stationary states, when these conditions are applied.
In the classical experiments of Rutherford and Oliphant, in which by bombardment of separated lithium isotopes with protons and deuterons they were led to the 3 3 discovery of H, or tritium, and He, the foundation was indeed created for the vigorous modern attempt to apply thermonuclear reactions to the realization of the full promises of atomic energy sources. In the classical experiments of Rutherford and Oliphant, in which by bombardment of separated lithium isotopes with protons and deuterons they were led to the discovery of 3H, or tritium, and 3He, the foundation was mdeed created for the vigorous modern attempt to apply thermonuclear reactions to the realization of the full promises of atomic energy" sources.
In the collision reactigis, such that the interpretation of5x- Schrodinger wave equation these difficulties are avoided perimental facts ultimately demands on the abstractions by replacing the classical expression of the Hamiltonian of radiatio ' ' 1 articles. In the course of the discussions the last point was in particular stressed in connection with the great progress already achieved as regards the treatment of systems involving particles of the same mass, charge and spin, revealing in the case of such "identical" particles a 90 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE limitation of the individuality implied in classical corpuscular con- cepts.
In the course of the last few years a more general theoretical basis has been attained through the development of formal methods that permit the fixation of the stationary states for electron motions of a more general type than those WC have hitherto considered. In the course of the lecture we shall trace this correspondence in detail, and we shall be led to a simple explanation of the apparent capriciousness in the occurrence of lines predicted by the combination principle.
In the deduction of formula (78) there is looked apart, not only from the effect on the motion of the electron due to the small modifications in the laws of mechanics claimed by the theory of relativity, but also from the effect of possible forces which might act on the electron, corresponding to the reaction from the radiation in ordinary electrodynamics. In the deductions of this paper the following general assumptions are used: 1. In the determination of these numbers we at once encounter difficulties of a profound nature, whichas we shall seeare intimately connected with the question of the remarkable stability of atomic structure.
In the development of such views, I was encouraged not least by discussions with George Hevesy who distinguished himself among the Manchester group by his uncommonly broad chemical knowledge. In the development of the theory a large number of physicists have taken part, and the introduction of several quantum numbers can be traced back to the work of Planck himself. In the development of the theory of atomic structure the characteristic features of the natural system have found a surprisingly simple interpretation. In the discussion While the wave or phase velocity is given by v/, of these questions, it must be kept in mind that, the group - velocity is defined by dv/ds.
In the discussion fol- SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 97 lowing this report, Blackett told the story of the discovery of the positron by Anderson and himself in cosmic-ray researches and its interpretation in terms of Dirac's relativistic electron theory. In the discussion of these ET=IA=h, ..... In the discussion of this problem on the basis of the ordinary electrodynamics, we meet apart from the question of the energy radiation with new difficulties due to the question of the stability of the ring. In the discussion of this problem we shall for simplicity neglect the influence of the relativity modifications, assuming that the effect on the spectrum produced by each external field separately is large compared with the inherent fine structure of the hydrogen lines.
In the discussion we assumed that the effect of an electric field on the energy of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom, is connected with a considerable variation in the position and eccentricity of the orbit of the electron in the presence of the field. In the discussions of the foundations of biology the question of the role of notions beyond the language of physics has formed a main topic. In the edifice of classical physics, this situation finds its idealized expression in the assumption that the interaction between the object and the tools of observation can be neglected or, at any rate, compensated for. In the elements of the third periods, however, we possess a far more detailed knowledge of the series spectra. In the end they waited until May 1900.
In the experiments in question we consequently observe an absorption of radiation which is not accompanied by a complete transition between two different stationary states. In the field of science, especially in the domain of atomic physics, the con- tinued secrecy and restrictions deemed necessary for security reasons hampered international cooperation to an extent which split the world community of sci- 'entists inta separate camps. In the figure the arrows designate the processes that give rise to the components of the red and green lines in the hydrogen spectrum, the frequencies of which are obtained by putting n'' = 2 and n' = 3 or 4 respectively in the Balmer formula.
In the figure the elements are denoted by their usual chemical symbols, and the different vertical columns indicate the so-called periods. In the final state, as well as in the original state, the orbit of the electron will be closed, but during the transformation the orbit will not be closed, and the ratio between the mean period of revolution and the period of the radial motion, which in the original motion was equal to one, will during the transformation increase continuously until in the final state it is equal to two.
In the first case the perturbations will not affect the lengths of the principal axes of the elliptical orbit and will only produce a slow uniform rotation of the directions of these axes, while in the second case the lengths of the principal axes as well as their directions will perform slow oscillations. In the first case we have, taking for q1 the length of the radius vector from the fixed point to the particle and for q2 the angular distance of this radius vector from a fixed direction, 1 = 2 and 2 = 1, while in the second case we have 1 = 2 = 1. In the first eventuality we need only to make a second determination of the momentum of the diaphragm, leaving unknown forever its exact position when the particle passed.
In the first paper he shows that a more detailed explanation of the origin of the high frequency spectra can be obtained on the basis of the group structure of the atom. In the first place it has been possible, just as in the case of the optical spectra, to represent the frequency of each of the X-ray lines as the difference between two out of a manifold of spectral terms characteristic of the element in question.
In the first place it will be seen that, if the secular perturbations as determined by the equations (46) are of conditionally periodic type, the displacements of the particles of the system in any given direction may, with neglect of small quantities proportional to the intensity of the external forces, be represented, within a time interval sufficiently large for these forces to produce a considerable change in the shape and position of the orbit, as a sum of harmonic vibrations by expressions of the type: X = C,t1 ,..., ts1 cos 2 ( P + t1 v1 + (65) + ts1 vs1 )t + c,t1 ,..., ts1 , where the summation is to be extended over all positive and negative entire values of , t1 , .
In the first place we have at once from Larmors theorem, denoting the frequency of revolution of the electron in a stationary state of the undisturbed hydrogen atom by , that the motion of the electron, in a corresponding stationary state of the atom in the presence of the field, may be resolved in a number of linear harmonic vibrations parallel to the direction of the magnetic force with frequencies , where is a positive integer, and in a number of circular harmonic rotations perpendicular to this direction with frequencies + vH or vH , according as the direction of rotation is the same as or the opposite of that of the superposed rotation.
In the first place, Einstein pointed out that the condition limiting the amount of vibrational energy of the particles could be tested by investigation of the specific heat of crystalline bodies, since in the case of these we have to do with similar vibrations, not of a single electron, but of whole atoms about positions of equilibrium in the crystal lattice. In the first place, Evans was able to produce the Fowler lines in discharges through helium of extreme purity, not showing any trace of the ordinary hydrogen lines. In the first place, from the point of view considered above the objection as to the instability of the systems for displacements of the electrons in the plane of the ring may not be valid.
In the first place, his calculations rest upon a particular application to non-circular orbits of the principle of constancy of angular momentum for each electron, which it does not seem possible to justify either on the Quantum theory or on the ordinary mechanics, and which has no direct connexion with the assumptions used in my papers. In the first place, it is evident that according to Rutherfords theory the particle is the same as the nucleus of a helium atom. In the first place, regarding the question of the extent to which we can hope to explain the characteristic features of living organisms with the sole help of the experience acquired from the study of inanimate nature, we must above all keep in mind that even a definition of life itself contains epistemological problems.
In the first place, the actual atoms in their per- manent state seem to have absolutely fixed dimensions and frequencies. In the first place, the origin of the meson mass cannot primarily be sought in a couplingwith the fields acting upon them, but isdirectlyconnected with the range of the meson fields themselves. In the first place, the relationship between the X-ray spectra ofdifferent elements proved so simple that it became possible to fix without ambiguity the atomic number for all known substances, and in this way to predict with certainty the atomic number of all such hitherto unknown elements for which there is a place in the natural system. In the first respect, Ehrenfest had introduced the principle of adiabatic invariance of stationary states.
In the first weeks of my stay in the laboratory, I followed, on Rutherford's advice, an introductory course on the experimental methods of radioactive research which under the experi- enced instruction of Geiger, Makower and Marsden was arranged for the benefit of students and new visitors. In the following considerations we shall for the sake of brevity refer to the two kinds of states in question as " mechanica]~" states; by this notation only emphasizing the assumption that the motion of the electron in both cases can be accounted t'or by the ordinary mechanics.
In the following discussion of the application of the quantum theory to determine the line-spectrum of a given system, it will, just as in the theory of temperature-radiation, not be necessary to introduce detailed assumptions as to the mechanism of transition between two stationary states. In the following sections some of the recent experimental evidence on line spectra and characteristic Rontgen rays will be considered, and I shall endeavour to show that it seems to give strong support to the main principles of the theory. In the following sections the mentioned problems will be discussed in detail.
In the following sections we shall apply the preceding considerations to the problem of the fixation of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom, when the relativity modifications are taken into account, and when the atom is exposed to small external fields. In the following table the first column contains the wave lengths measured by Fowler, while the second contains the limiting values of the experimental errors given by him; in the third column we find the products of the wave lengths 1 1 by the quantity 1010 ; the values employed for n21 n22 n1 and n2 are enclosed in parentheses in the last column.
In the following we shall therefore, as in all the papers mentioned in the introduction, for the present calculate the motions of the particles in the stationary states as the motions of mass-points according to ordinary mechanics including the modifications claimed by the theory of relativity, and we shall later in the discussion of the special applications come back to the question of the degree of approximation which may be obtained in this way.
In the following years it was indeed possible, through the con- 86 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE tinned study of high-frequency and optical spectra by Siegbahn, Catalan and others, to arrive at a detailed picture of the shell-structure of the electron distribution in the ground state of the atom, which clearly reflected the periodicity features of Mendeleev's table. In the following years many efforts were made to apply the concepts of the quantum theory to the question of atomic structure, and the principal emphasis was sometimes placed on one and sometimes on the other of the consequences deduced by Einstein from Planck's result.
In the following years, during which the atomic problems attracted the attention of rapidly increasing circles of physicists, the apparent contradictions inherent in quantum theory were felt ever more acutely. In the following years, the more philosophical aspects of the situation in atomic physics aroused the interest of even larger circles and were, in particular, discussed at the Second International Congress for the Unity of Science in Copenhagen in July 1936.
In the following, however, we shall not treat the problem of the influence of an external magnetic field on the hydrogen spectrum by means of the method of separation of variables, but in analogy to the treatment of the problems of the fine structure and of the Stark effect of the hydrogen lines, given in the preceding sections, we shall treat the problem from the point of view of the theory of perturbed periodic systems. In the former paper it was pointed out that the orbit of the electron will be deformed by the external field. In the former papers it was shown that the general assumptions led to the following formula for the spectrum emitted by an electron rotating round a positive nucleus are the electric charges and the masses of the nucleus and the electron respectively.
In the former section and in the present we have seen, how the problems of the influence of the relativity modifications on the lines of the hydrogen spectrum and of the influence of an external electric field on this spectrum can be treated, by regarding the motion of the electron as a perturbed periodic motion, and by fixing the stationary states on the basis of the relation between the energy and the frequencies of the secular perturbations.
In the former such a the possibilities of observation and those of definition restriction is unnecessary because the particles are .W here endowed with an immediatereality, inde- According to the quantum postulate any observation pendently of their being free or bound; This situation is regarding the behaviour of the electron in the atom will particularly important in connection with the consistent be accompanied by a change in the state of the atom.
In the former such which this assumption entails for the description a restriction is unnecessary, because the particles of collision and radiation reactions, it is essential are here endowed with an immediate * reality, to consider the limitations of the possibilities of 1928 Nature Publishing Group 588 Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 definition of the reacting free individuals, which is the investigation of the properties of single atoms. In the fourth period we meet at first elements which resemble chemically those at the beginning of the two previous periods. In the general case these changes will be so complicated that it will not be possible to decompose the perturbed motion into discrete harmonic oscillations.
In the general case, however, where the weaker field is not parallel to the stronger, there will, in the expression for the displacement of the electron in any given direction, in addition appear a number of harmonic vibrations the amplitudes of which are proportional to and the frequencies of which, as a closer consideration of the perturbations learns, are equal to the sum or difference of the frequency of one of the harmonic vibrations, in which the motion in this direction could be resolved if the external fields were parallel to each other, and one of the small frequencies of type |t1 v1 + v2 |, which appear in the expression for the secular perturbations of the electron in this case.
In the hydrogen atom there is of course only one electron; but we must assume that in the atoms of other elements the next electron also will be bound in such a r-quantum orbit of type 11. In the last report at the conference, Einstein summarized many applications of the quantum concept and dealt in particular with the fundamental arguments used in his explanation of the anomalies of specific heats at low temperatures. In the last resort an artificial word like "complementarity" which does not belong to our daily concepts serves only briefly to remind us of the epistemological situation here encountered, which at least in physics is of an entirely novel character (AE).
In the last respect, Dirac's ingenious quantum theory of the electron offered a most striking illustration of the power and fertility of the general quantum-mechanical way of description. In the last years, great progress has been achieved as regards our knowledge of the complicated molecular structures in living cells, and especially of the specific molecular chains which carry the genetic information from generation to generation. In the latter case a vacant place will be left in that ring to be replaced in turn by another electron, etc. In the latter case the energy should be several times larger.
In the latter case, however, the preceding considerations need some modifications due to the fact, that the external forces acting on the electron cannot be derived from a potential expressed as a function of its positional coordinates; to this point we shall come back in 5. In the limit where the ns are large numbers and the stationary states corresponding to successive values for the ns differ only very little from each other, we thus obtain the same result on the assumption of equal a-priori probability of all the stationary states, corresponding to different sets of values of n1 , .
In the limit, however, where n is large, the motions in successive states will only differ very little from each other, and it would therefore make little difference whether the points representing the systems are distributed continuously on the phase-surface or situated only on the curves corresponding to (10), provided the number of systems which in the first case are situated between two such curves is equal to the number which in the second case lies on one of these curves.
In the limit, however, where the ns in (22) are large numbers, the ratio between the s for two stationary states, corresponding to nk = n0k and nk = n00k respectively, will tend to unity if the differences n0k n00k are small compared with the ns, and as seen from (30) the spectrum calculated by (1) and (22) will in this limit just tend to coincide with that to be expected on the ordinary theory of radiation from the motion of the system. In the lower half is given for comparison a representation of the theoretical results from a drawing in Kramers' paper. In the magnetic field each elliptic harmonic component having the frequency splits up into three harmonic components owing to the uniform rotation of the orbit.
In the meantime great scientific and even public excitement had arisen over the discovery of X-rays by Roentgen at the end of 1895 and the later observations by J. J. Thomson that these rays had the power to produce temporary electrical conductivity in air. In the meantime this theory has assumed more definite form, and in two recent letters to Nature I have given a somewhat further sketch of the development. In the method we have employed our point of departure was largely determined by this particular principle. In the more rigorous form of the theory de- states and of individual transition processes are main veloped by Dirac, the radiation field itself is included in tained even in this limit.
In the more rigorous form principle that it has no sense to co-ordinate a of the theory developed by Dirac (Proc. In the nearly twenty years during which Rutherford, right up to his death, worked with undiminished energy in Cambridge, wife and I my kept in close touch with him and his family. In the next Part we shall see that these conclusions are supported in an instructive manner by the experiments on the effects of electric and magnetic fields on the hydrogen spectrum.
In the next part of this paper, dealing with the constitution of atoms, we shall consider the question more closely and try to show ttmt a calculation based on this assumption is in quantitative agreement with the results of experiments : here we shall only mention briefly a problem with which we meet in such a calculation. In the next years Rutherford was more and more occupied with the possibilities of producing nuclear disintegrations by means of fast a-rays, and already in a letter on December 9th, 1917, he writes: I occasionally find an odd half day to try a few of my own experiments and have got I think results that will ultimately prove of great importance.
In the one, the balance together with another piece of apparatus like a spectrometer is used for the study of the energy transfer by a photon; in the other, a shutter regulated by a standardised clock together with another apparatus of similar kind, accurately timed relatively to the clock, is used for the study of the time of propagation of a photon over a given distance. In the original experiment this was the luminescent wall of the glass tube but, as subsequently found, a metal target acts better.
In the phenomena of creation and annihilation of electron pairs we have in fact to do with new fundamental features of atomicity, which are intimately connected with the non-classical aspects of quantum statistics expressed in the exclusion principle, and which have demanded a still more far-reaching renunciation of explanation in terms of a pictorial representation. In the preceding it has been shown how it is possible to attack the problem of the stationary states of a perturbed periodic system by an examination of the secular perturbations of the shape and position of the orbit, and to fix these states if the perturbations are of periodic or conditionally periodic type.
In the preceding sections I have described how external fields of force split up the hydrogen lines into several components, but it should be noticed that these results are only accurate when the perturbations are large in comparison with the small deviations from a pure Keplerian motion due to the variation of the mass of the electron with its velocity. In the preparation of the articles, my father was aided by J0rgen Kalckar, Aage Petersen and Erik Riidinger. In the presence of a weak magnetic field the components of a double line are resolved in a complicated way. In the presence of an external field the orbit will in general not remain periodic, but will in the course of time cover a continuous extension of the plane.
In the presence of such forces, we shall therefore expect that, in addition to the regular probabilities of the above mentioned main transitions, there will appear small probabilities for other transitions. In the present case this connection claims in the first place that the frequency of revolution tends to zero for increasing n. According to (36) and (37) we may therefore put the value of W in the nth stationary state equal to Wn = Kh .
In the present case will, besides on 1 , depend on 2 only, and from the equations (46) we get therefore the well known result, that the angular momentum of the electron and the plane of its orbit will not vary during the perturbations, and that the only secular effect of the perturbing field will consist in a slow uniform rotation of the direction of the major axis. In the present case, for example, the fact that the amplitudes of those circular components which rotate in the same sense as the electron are in general greater than the amplitudes of those which rotate in the opposite sense leads us to expect that lines corresponding to transitions for which k decreases by unity will in general possess greater intensity than lines during the emission of which k increases by unity.
In the present critieal sit ation, however, I feel that an account of my views and experiences may perhaps contribute to renewed discussion about these matters so deeply influencing international relationship. In the present first part of the paper the mechanism of" The binding o~ electrons by a positive nucleus is discussed in relation to Planck's theory. In the present paper these considerations will be further developed, and it will be shown that it seems possible on the theory to account for some of the characteristic features of the recent discovery by Stark of the effect of an electric field on spectral lines, as well as of the effect of a magnetic field first discovered by Zeeman.
In the present situation these bonds may prmve especially helpful in connection with the deliberations of the respective government* and the establishment of the control. In the present special case, however, the stationary states of the atom may be very simply determined, due to the fact that the secular perturbations are simply periodic independent of the initial shape and position of the orbit, so that we are concerned with a degenerate case of a perturbed periodic system. In the present state of the theory it is not possible to account in detail for the formula (13), but it was pointed out in my previous papers that a simple interpretation can be given of the fact that in every series approaches unity for large values of.
In the quantum postulate for this phenomenon was general, the conditions for attributing an energy disregarded beg)re the necessity of the wave concept and a momentum value to a wave-field by means was realised. In the quantum-mechanical description our freedom of constructing and handling the experimental arrangement finds its proper expression in the possibility of choosing the classically defined parameters entering in any proper application of the formalism. In the question of the constitution of the helium atom we meet the much more complicated problem of the binding of the second electron. In the radioactive processes we meet with an explosion of the nucleus, whereby positive or negative particles, the so-called and particles, are expelled with very great velocities.
In the reference system considered in Figs. In the report comprising the whole evidence available at that time as regards so-called artificial nuclear disintegrations, Cockcroft also compared the results of the experiments in Cambridge with proton bombardment with those just obtained in Berkeley with deuterons accelerated in the cyclotron newly constructed by Lawrence. In the same semi-serious style, Fig. In the same year (1932) as Cockcroft and Walton's achievement, Chadwick made the experimental discovery of the neutron. In the search for a harmonious relationship between the life of the individual and the organization of the community, there have always been and will ever re- main many problems to ponder and principles for which to strive.
In the second article, the complementary approach to problems of psychology and sociology is dealt with in more detail. In the second eventuality we need only to determine its position relative to the space frame with the inevitable loss of the knowledge of the momentum exchanged between the diaphragm and the particle, If the diaphragm is sufficiently massive in comparison with the particle, we may even arrange the procedure of measurements in such a way that the diaphragm after the first determination of its momentum will remain at rest in some unknown position relative to the other parts of the apparatus, and the subsequent fixation of this position may therefore simply consist in establishing a rigid connection between the diaphragm and the common support.
In the second instrument for the same purpose as in the pre- eventuality we need only to determine its vious case, but must, as regards its position rela- position relative to the space frame with the tive to the rest of the apparatus, be treated, like inevitable loss of the knowledge of the mo- the particle traversing the slit, as an object of mentum exchanged between the diaphragm and the particle. In the seventh and last period of the periodic system we may expect the appearance of 7quanta orbits in the normal state of the atom. In the simplest case of the hydrogen spectrum, the terms are with great accuracy given by Tn =R/n?
In the sixth period it has been necessary to introduce two frames, of which the inner one indicates the last stage of the evolution of the group with 4quanta orbits, giving rise to the rare earths. In the sodium atom this electron will move in a field which so far as the outer part of the orbit is concerned deviates only very little from that surrounding the nucleus in the hydrogen atom, but the dimensions of this part of the orbit will, nevertheless, be essentially different from the dimensions of the corresponding part of a 31 orbit in the hydrogen atom. In the sodium spectrum for instance the lines of the principal series are doublets indicating that to each P term not one stationary state, but two such states correspond with slightly different values of the energy.
In the speaking, the exclusion of all interactions with individuals wave represenrgrion. In the special case of a simple bolic methods to build up a consistent theory of harmonic vibrator, he was able to show that atomic phenomena, which may be considered as & such wave groups will keep together even for any rational generalisation of the causal space-time length of time, and will oscillate to and fro in a description of classical physics. In the special case of circular orbits (n1 = 0), this expression coincides with an expression previously deduced by the writer (Phil.
In the special case under consideration, however, the perturbed system, formed by the atom in the presence of the stronger field only, is degenerate, the secular perturbations of the orbit of the electron being of a simple periodic character. In the special case where the motions in the three directions are simply harmonic, we shall moreover conclude that none of the ns can vary by more than a single unit, in analogy with the considerations in the former section about a linear harmonic vibrator.
In the special case where the secular perturbations due to the first field are simply periodic, it wall in this way be seen that the problem of the fixation of the stationary states in the presence of the second external field, by means of the method exposed in this section, may be reduced to the problem of the fixation of the stationary states of a system of s 2 degrees of freedom. In the special case, where the perturbed system allows of separation of variables, this last result may be shown to follow directly from formula (28) in Part I. In the spectra of many elements, as opposed to the simple spectrum of hydrogen, there are several series of lines whose wave lengths are to a close approximation given by Rydbergs formula if different values are assigned to the constants A and .
In the spectrum we accordingly meet a single series of spectral terms of the form K/n2, which decrease regularly with increasing term number n. In accordance with the postulates, we shall therefore assume that each of the hydrogen lines is emitted by a transition between two states belonging to a series of stationary states of the hydrogen atom in which the numerical value of the atom's energy is equal to hK/n2.
In the spring of 1932, at one of our yearly conferences in the Copenhagen Institute, where as always we were happy to see many of our former collaborators, one of the main topics of discussion was, of course, the implications of the discovery of the neutron, and a special point raised was the apparently strange circumstance that in Dee's beautiful cloud-chamber pictures no interaction whatever was ob- served between the neutrons and the electrons bound in the atoms. In the stars, however, we may assume that we have to do with hydrogen which is exceedingly attenuated and distributed throughout an enormously large region of space. In the stationary states of the system the motion of the electron without any field will be an ellipse with the nucleus in the focus.
In the stationary states of the unperturbed hydrogen atom only the major axis of the orbit is to be regarded as fixed, while the eccentricity may assume any value. In the study of atomic phenomena, how- ever, we are presented with a situation where the repetition of an experiment with the same arrangement may lead to different record- ings, and experiments with different arrangements may give results which at first sight seem contradictory to each other. In the study of phenomena in the account of which we are dealing with detailed momentum balance, certain parts of the whole device must naturally be given the freedom to move independently of others.
In the study of regulatory biological mechanisms the situation is rather that no sharp distinction can be made between the detailed construction of these mechanisms and the functions they fulfil in upholding the life of the whole organism. In the summer of 1916 wife and I left Manchester and returned my to Denmark, where I had been appointed to the newly created pro- fessorship of theoretical physics in the University of Copenhagen. In the the periodic system to a certain degree of comple- adaptation of the relativity requirement to the tion.
In the theory of the electrical effect on the hydrogen spectrum given in the former section, it was supposed that this effect was due to an alteration of the energy of the systems in the external field, and that this alteration was intimately connected with a considerable deformation of the orbit of the electron. In the transitions of the first type n2 will remain unaltered and the emitted radiation will give rise to components of the hydrogen lines which will show linear polarisation parallel to the axis. In the transitions of the second type n2 will change by one unit and the emitted radiation will show circular polarisation when viewed in the direction of the axis.
In the treatment of atomic problems, actual calculations are most conveniently carried out with the help of a Schrodinger state function, from which the statistical laws governing observations obtainable under specified conditions can be deduced by definite mathematical operations. In the ultraviolet the series converges to a limit. In the various stationary states this area is equal to k times the area of a circle whose radius is equal to half n the major axis of the orbit. In the very lively discussions on such points, which Lorentz with his openness of mind and balanced attitude managed to conduct in fruitful directions, ambiguities of terminology presented great difficulties for agreement regarding the epistemological problems.
In the wave representa- that the condition for separability mentioned tion, however, the time of reaction is immediately just means the loss of the phase. In the winter of 1925-26 Heisenberg worked in Gottingen, where I also came for a few days. In the years which have passed since the war, the divergencies in outlook have manifested themselves ever more clearly and a most desperate feature of the present situation is the extent to which the barring of intercourse has led to distortion of facts and motives, resulting in increasing distrust and suspicion between nations and eve11 between groups within many nations. In theesmg)xmu]se the the space-time description.
In these cases the field of force in which the electron moves will be much the same as that surrounding the nucleus of a hydrogen or helium atom respectively, at least in the earlier stages of the binding process, where during the greater part of its revolution it moves at a distance from the nucleus which is large in proportion to the dimensions of the orbits of the electrons previously bound. In these circumstances Dr. Coster and Prof. Hevesy, who are both for the time working in Copenhagen, took up a short time ago the problem of testing a preparation of zircon-bearing minerals by X-ray spectroscopic analysis.
In these conditions there grew up a vigorous healthy democracy in which the common good was the main objective, which encouraged initiative and respected leadership, and in which each helped the other as the first principle of duty and loyalty yet with a strong core of practical common sense rather than artificial sentimentality. In these considerations I shall employ the results obtained from the study of temperature radiation as well as the view of atomic structure which has been reached by the study of the radioactive elements. In these considerations it is not necessary to make any assumption about the degree of excentricity of the orbit of the electron, and we shall see in the next section that it cannot be assumed that the orbit is always circular.
In these deductions we have made no assumptions about the degree of eccentricity of the orbits. In these equations the quantity plays formally the same part as the total energy in the usual mechanical problem, and in analogy with the principle of conservation of energy it follows directly from (46) that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 , the value of will remain constant during the perturbations, even if the external forces act through a time interval of the same order as /. In these experiments, an absorption corresponding to a very great nmnber of lines in the principal series of the sodium spectrum is observed, and in addition a continuous absorption which begins at the head of the series and extends to the extreme ultra-violet.
In these formulae the two notions of light and than the velocity of light emphasizes the symbolic cha- also of matter enter in sharp contrast. In these orbits the excentricity is equal to 1, and the major axis parallel to the external force; the orbits simply consisting of a straight line through the nucleus parallel to the axis of the field, one on each side of it. In these papers the principle in question is called the adiabatic hypothesis in accordance with the line of argumentation followed by Ehrenfest in which considerations of thermodynamical problems play an important part. In these respects thorium compounds were very different from uranium from which the radiation was constant.
In these states the energy of the system is equal to a whole multiple of a socalled energy quantum, which was found to be proportional to the frequency of the oscillator. In these states the last captured electron, even if it remains at a considerable distance from the nucleus during the greater part of its revolution, will at certain moments during the revolution approach to a distance from the nucleus which is of the same order of magnitude as the dimensions of the orbits of the previously bound electrons. In these the chemical valence bonds were represented by electron rings of the same type as those which were assumed to compose the groups of electrons within the individual atoms.
In these very same years when, in developing his theory of relativity, Einstein laid a new foundation for physical science, he explored with a most daring spirit the novel features of atomicity which pointed beyond the whole framework of classical physics. In these, the eccentricity is equal to 1 and the major-axis parallel to the axis of the external field; the orbits simply consist of a straight line through the nucleus parallel to the axis of the field, one on each side of it. In they found escape from apparent disharmonies in particular, lifeby stressing the futility of demanding an answer to the question of ' the meaning of existence, realizing that any use of the word 'meaning" implies comparison; and with what can we compare the whole existence?
In this account and measuring agencies. In this account we must therefore obviously allow for a latitude in the energy balance, corresponding to the quantum-mechanical uncertainty relation for the conjugate time and energy variables. In this address I have tried to show how researches into the world of atoms have offered new opportunities of tracing that harmony in nature of which 0rsted spoke, but which we perhaps would rather refer to as the unity of human knowledge.
In this arrangement, it is therefore clear that a subsequent single measurement either of the position or of the momentum of one of the particles will automatically determine the position or momentum, respectively, of the other particle with any desired accuracy; at least if the wave-length corresponding to the free motion of each particle is su%ciently short compared with the width of the slits. In this article, a comparison was also made between the lesson derived from the discovery of the universal quantum of action and the development which has followed the discovery of the finite velocity of light and which, through Einstein's pioneer work, has so greatly clarified basic principles of natural philosophy.
In this attack not only the ful in connexion with the new methods, as imaginary complex quantities appearing in the shown especially by Heisenberg and Jordan. In this attack not only the imaginary complex quantities appearing in the earlier procedures are involved, but his fundamental equations themselves contain quantities of a still higher degree of complexity that are represented by matrices. In this bold conception the canonical equations of mechanics are retained in their Hamiltonian form, but the conjugate variables are replaced by operators subject to a non-commutative algorism involving Planck's constant as well as the symbol <\/l. In this calculation we shall make use of the ordinary mechanics, from analogy with the considerations of the former section.
In this case E is at any moment equal to the total work done by the external forces on the particles of the system since the beginning of the establishment of the field. In this case harmonic oscillations will appear in the motion of the system the frequencies of which are equal to whole multiples of the period of the orbital perturbations, and in the spectrum to be expected on the basis of the ordinary theory of radiation we would expect components corresponding to these frequencies. In this case it is evident that the motion of the system will retain its centrally symmetrical character, and that the perturbed motion will differ from the unperturbed motion only in that the frequency of rotation of the major axis will be different for different values of this axis and of the parameter.
In this case it is possible to choose a set of positional coordinates q1 , . In this case neither the form of the orbit nor the position of its plane will change with time, and the perturbing effect of the field will simply consist of a uniform rotation of the major axis of the orbit. In this case the co-ordinates, as well as to the momentum-ener magnitude of the recoil, 2/A, is sufficiently well components before and after the process.
In this case the determination of the energy of the stationary states of the disturbed system is extremely simple, since it is found that the period of the disturbance does not depend upon the original configuration of the orbits nor therefore upon the position of the plane in which the centre of the orbit moves, but only upon the major axis and the frequency of revolution. In this case the plane of the orbit is undetermined, and it follows already from a comparison with ordinary statistical mechanics, that the a-priori probability of the states characterised by different combinations of n1 and n2 in (16) cannot be the same.
In this case the potential of the perturbing force is a linear function of the coordinates of the particles and, whatever is the nature of the original system, it follows directly from the general theory of perturbations that the frequency of any additional term in the expression for the perturbed motion, which is of the same order of magnitude as the external force, must correspond to the sum or difference of two frequencies of the harmonic vibrations into which the original motion can be resolved. In this case the second electron, as opposed to the first, will move in a 21 orbit.
In this case the solution of the problem of the fixation of the stationary states is given by Sommerfelds general theory of central systems, discussed in Part I, which rests upon the fact that these systems allow of separation of variables in polar coordinates. In this case there is no system of coordinates by which the equations of motion can be solved by separation of the variables, and the problem, therefore, cannot be treated by the theory of the stationary states of conditionally periodic systems. In this case we have that the total magnetic flux of force through the orbit of the electron is equal to the product of the intensity H of the magnetic field and the area of the projection of the orbit on a plane perpendicular to this field.
In this case we shall naturally expect that no transition will be possible for which the relation n0k n00k = k0 is satisfied for every k. In the case where C10 ,..., s0 is equal to zero in the expressions for the displacement in a certain direction only, we shall expect that all transitions, for which n0k n00k = k0 for every k, will be accompanied by a radiation which is polarised in a plane perpendicular to this direction. In this case, however, the orbits with which we meet will not be circular, as in the capture of the 7th electron, but will be rotating eccentric orbits of the type 32 . In this case, in which the equation (17) allows of what is called separation of variables, we get from (19) that every p is a function of the s and of the corresponding q only.
In this case, the directing effect of the electric force will oppose the rotatory effect of the magnetic force, and the result may be the appearance of a number of stationary orbits close to the orbits to be expected when the electric field acts alone. In this case, the orbit may at every moment be considered as an ellipse with the nucleus in the focus, and the effect of the field will consist in a gradual variation of the direction of the major-axis as well as of the eccentricity. In this case, the outer electron will rotate round a system of double charge, and we must assume that in the stationary states it will have configurations approximately the same as an electron rotating round a helium nucleus.
In this case, therefore, it is possible to have several groups of stationary states, for which the energy of the inner system is approximately the same while the form of the orbit of the inner electron and its position relative to the motion of the other electrons are so essentially different, that no transitions between the states of different groups can occur even in the presence of external forces. In this case, which is of great importance in the physical applications, we have from (5) and (21), for any set of coordinates in which a separation of variables is possible, Z (p1 q1 + + ps qs ) dt = 1 I1 + + s Is , I= (23) 0 where the integration is extended over one period of the motion, and where 1 , .
In this con- nection it is of interest to recall that at the very time of the conference, Moseley was studying the high-frequency spectra of the elements by the Laue-Bragg method, and had already discovered the remarkably simple laws which not only allowed the identification of the nuclear charge of any element, but even were to give the first direct indication of the shell structure of the electronic configuration in the atom responsible for the peculiar periodicity exhibited in Mendeleev's famous table.
In this connection I may also recall how Christian Anfinsen in his lecture at a symposium Copenhagen a few years ago started by saying in that he and his colleagues had hitherto considered themselves learned geneticists and biochemists, but that now they felt like amateurs trying to make head and tail of more or less separated biochemical evidence. In this connection I remember how, in an Institute colloquium, Heisenberg pointed out that matrix mechanics permits the determination not only of the expectation value of a physical quantity but also of the expecta- tion values of every power of this quantity, and how in the subsequent discussion Dirac stated that this remark had given him the clue to general transformations.
In this connection I warned especially against phrases, often found in the physical literature, such as "disturbing of phenomena by observation" or "creating physical attributes to atomic objects by measurements." In this connection I would like to mention that Heisenberg, on receiving a letter from Jordan, described his feelings in roughly the following words: "Now the learned Got- tingen mathematicians talk so much about Hermitian matrices, but I do not even know what a matrix is." In this connection Rutherford spoke most admiringly of the persistence with which Wilson already during their comradeship in the Cavendish had pursued his researches on cloud formation with ever more refined apparatus.
In this connection a viewpoint termed *complementarity is explained from which quantum-mechanical deseription of physical phenomena would seem to fulfill, within its scope, all rational demands of completeness. In this connection it has to be recognized that aboli- tion of barriers would imply greater modifications in administrative practices in countries where new social structures are being built up in temporary seclusion than in countries with long traditions in governmental organization and international contacts.
In this connection it is above all significant that the enterprise, immense as it is, has still proved far smaller than might have been anticipated and that the progress of the work has continually revealed new possibilities for facilitating the production of the active materials and of intensifying their effects. In this connection it is of interest to emphasize that the group distribution of the electrons in the atom, on which we have based both the explanation of the periodic system and the classification of the lines in the Xray spectra, shows itself in an entirely different manner in these two phenomena.
In this connection it is significant that the special character of the efforts which, irrespective of technical refinements, are required for the production of the active materials, and the peculiar conditions which govern their use as dangerous explosives, will greatly facilitate such control and should ensure its efficienqy, provided only that the right of supervision is guaranteed. In this connection it may be noted that the fact, that in the absorption spectra of some diatomic gases faint lines occur corresponding to the double frequency of the main lines,1 ) obtains a natural explanation by assuming that for finite amplitudes the vibrations are not exactly harmonic and that therefore the molecules possess a small probability of passing also between non-successive states.
In this connection it may be of interest to mention a recent paper by Bury, to which my attention was first drawn after the deliverance of this address, and which contains an interesting survey of the chemical properties of the elements based on similar conceptions of atomic structure as those applied by Lewis and Langmuir. In this connection it may be pointed out that the principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states allows us to overcome a fundamental difficulty which at first sight would seem to be involved in the definition of the energy difference between two stationary states 1 ) P. Ehrenfest, loc.
In this connection it may be remarked, however, that the number of components, into which a given hydrogen line is split up in the presence of a magnetic field, will in general be double as large as the number of components which appear in the presence of an external electric field of axial symmetry. In this connection it may once more be emphasised that these equations, according to the manner in which they were deduced, allow to follow the secular perturbations only through a time interval of the same order of magnitude as that sufficient for the external forces to produce a finite alteration in the shape and position of the orbit.
In this connection it might be mentioned that the increase in atomic volume with increasing atomic number in the family of the alkali metals finds a simple explanation in the successively looser binding of the valency electrons. In this connection it must be especially remembered that the possibility of avoiding any such inconsistency within the frame of complementarity is given by the very fact that no result of biological investigation can be un ambiguously described otherwise than in terms of physics and chemistry, just as any account of experience even in atomic physics must ultimately rest on the use of the concepts indispensable for a conscious recording of sense impressions.
In this connection it must first of all be remarked that all the general considerations in the preceding sections, as regards relations between energy and frequency and as regards the mechanical transformability of the stationary states, hold unaltered if the relativity modifications are taken into account. In this connection it was emphasized that the elimination of all contradictions is secured by the mathematical consistency of the formalism, and the exhaustive character of the description within its scope indicated by its adaptability to any imaginable experimental arrangement.
In this connection it will be observed that, due to the possibility of introduction of angle variables, the conditions (67) appear in the same form as that in which the conditions, which fix the stationary states of ordinary conditionally periodic systems which allow of separation of variables, have been formulated by Schwarzschild, and which, as mentioned in the Note in Part I, has already been applied by Burgers to certain systems for which such a separation cannot be obtained.
In this connection it will be observed, that the relation discussed above between the hydrogen spectrum and the motion of the atom in the limit of small frequencies is completely analogous to the general relation, discussed in 2 in Part I, between the spectrum which on the quantum theory would be emitted by a system of one degree of freedom, the stationary states of which are determined by (10), and the motion of the system in these states. In this connection it will be seen that the inner frame encloses a smaller number of elements than is usually attributed to the family of the rare earths.
In this connection itmust also be remembered that recording of observations ultimately rests on the production of permanent marks on the measuring instru- ments, such as the spot produced on a photographic plate by impact of a photon or an electron. In this connection must be remembered, however, that the procedure de he has formulated the relation scribed is l' ' ' e roblems, 1n Wthh 1n 2 Ag Ap ~ It ......(4) plying the quantum postulate the space-time description as the general expression for the maximum accuracy WWW with which two canonically conjugated variables can tion in the laced in the back- simultaneously be observed. In this connection not least Darwin's mastery of the methods of mathemati- cal physics often proved helpful.
In this connection the view has been expressed from various sides that some future more radical departure in our mode of description from the concepts adapted to our daily experience would perhaps make it possible to preserve the ideal of causality also in the field of atomic physics. In this connection we shall also consider the problem of dispersion of light in hydrogen gas and the problem of the voltage necessary to produce the lines of the series spectrum of hydrogen by an electric discharge in this gas.
In this connection, attention may also be called to the apparent paradoxes involved in the quantum theory of fields as well as in DiracTMs electron theory, whichimply the existence in free space of an energy density and electric density, respectively, which, even with the limitations of field and particle concepts sug- gested, would befar too great to conform to the basis of general relativity theory. In this connection, it is also essential to remember that unambiguous information concerning atomic all objects is derived from the permanent marks such as a spot on a photographic plate, caused by the impact of an electron left on the bodies which define the experimental conditions.
In this connection, it is essential to note that, in any well defined application of quantum mechanics, it is neces sary to specify the whole experimental arrangement and that, in particular, the possibility of disposing of the parameters defining the quantum-mechanical prob lem just corresponds to our freedom of constructing and handling the measuring apparatus, which in turn means the freedom to choose between the different complementary types of phenomena we wish to study.
In this connection, it is of decisive importance to realize that the fruitful application of structural formulae in chemistry rests solely on the fact that the atomic nuclei are so much heavier than the electrons that, in comparison with molecular dimensions, the indeterminacy in the position of the nuclei can be largely neglected. In this connection, it is stressed that any attempt, however suggestive, at overcoming such restrictions by modifications of the classical theories would seem to involve an element of arbitrariness since, in the region with which we are concerned, phenomena related to the quantum of action are known to play a decisive part.
In this connection, reference is hardly necessary to the ingenious method of labelling the atoms by the use of isotopic indicators, which was originally conceived and developed by HEVESY, and which offers so wide perspectives as regards detailed insight into the metabolism of organic matter under the most various circumstances. In this connection, the many occasions through the years on which I had the privilege to discuss with Einstein epistemological problems raised by the modern development of atomic physics have come back vividly to my mind and I have felt that I could hardly attempt anything better than to give an account of these discussions which, even if no complete concord has so far been obtained, have been of greatest value and stimulus to me.
In this connection, the question has even been raised whether re- course to multivalued logics is needed for a more appropriate repre- sentation of the situation. In this connexion he succeeded in formal way. In this connexion it may also be remarked that the assumption A recently has obtained direct support by experiments of A. Einstein and J. W. de Haas , who have succeeded in detecting and measuring a rotational mechanical effect produced when an iron bar is magnetized. In this connexion it may be remarked that on the present theory the rotation will give rise to diamagnetism only, since the kinetic energy of the electrons in the stationary states cannot be transferred into heat motion such as is supposed by Langevin in his theory of magnetism.
In this connexion it should also be remarked that when considering periodic orbits only mean values are essential (comp. In this connexion, however, it may be noticed that on this point of view the Rydberg constant is not exactly the same for every element, since the expression (8) for depends on the mass of the central nucleus. In this context, however, the subject-object separation demands special attention. In this context, we are of course not con- cerned with a restriction as to the accuracy of measurements, but with a limitation of the well-defined application of space-time concepts and dynamical conservation laws, entailed by the necessary distinction between measuring instruments and atomic objects.
In this dilemma, however, the general lesson of atomic theory suggests that the only way to reconcile the laws of physics with the concepts suited for a description of the phenomena of life is to examine the essential difference in the conditions of the observation of physical and biological phenomena. In this discussion we shall for the sake of simplicity consider the mass of the nucleus as infinite in the calculations of the perturbations of the orbit of the electron. In this dynamical problem of atomic theory proved itself way Heisenberg has been able to elucidate many from the beginning to be an exceedingly powerful paradoxes appearing in the application of the and fertile method for inwr)Eteting quantitatively quantum postulate, and to a large extent to the experimental results.
In this ease the electron will B2 4 Dr. N. Bohr on the Co~stitutlon no longer describe stationary orbits. In this environment Rutherford's father James had grown up to be vigorous, self-reliant and resourceful, occupying himself as general contractor, bridge builder and at any job which was profitable at the time. In this figure the frames are meant to indicate such elements in which one of the inner groups is in a stage of development. In this formalism Planck's constant enters only in the commutation relations between the symbols q and p standing for a pair of conjugate variables, or in the equivalent representation by means of the substitutions of the type - hd p=-v-1211:oq (2) by which one of each set of conjugate variables is replaced by a differential operator.
In this he gives a thorough discussion of the application of the correspondence principle to the question of the intensity of spectral lines. In this instance the application of the postulates involved the consequence that only certain orientations of the atom relative to the magnetic field were allowable, and this characteristic consequence of the quantum theory has quite recently received a most direct confirmation in the beautiful researches of Stern and Gerlach on the deflexion of swiftly moving silver atoms in a nonhomogenous magnetic field. In this it was assumed that each electron in its normal state moved in a manner analogous to the motion in the last stages of the binding of a single electron by a nucleus.
In this lecture I have purposely not considered the question of the structure of atoms and molecules although this is of course most intimately connected with the kind of spectral theory I have developed. In this lecture I shall use the ideas of the quantum theory. In this manner Sommerfeld was able to calculate a number of energy values which can be arranged in rows just like the empirical spectral terms shown in the diagram of the sodium spectrum (p. 46). In this new field of experience, opened by modern refinements of the art of physical experimentation, we have met with many great surprises and even been faced with the problem of what kind of answers we can receive by putting questions to nature in the form of experiments.
In this novel situation, even the old question of an ultimate determinacy of natural phenomena has lost its conceptional basis, and it is against this background that the viewpoint of complementarity presents itself as a rational generalization of the very ideal of causality. In this paper it will be shown how it appears possible to predict in detail the manner in which the fine structure of the hydrogen lines gradually changes into the ordinary Stark effect as the electric intensity increases. In this period of development of physical science, in which it was a wonderful adventure to participate, Werner Heisenberg occupied an outstanding position.
In this period we encounter not only a stage of the development of the electron groups with 5and 6-quantum orbits, but also the final completion of the development of the 4-quantum electron group, which is initiated by the entrance for the first time of electron orbits of the 44 type in the normal state of the atom. In this picture the creation of electrons takes place in pairs, of which the one with usual charge is simply lifted out of the sea, while the other with opposite charge is represented by a hole in the sea. In this picture we at once see a striking resemblance to a planetary system, such as we have in our own solar system.
In this region, the whole procedure by successive approximations, therefore,hardlyconstitutes an adequateapproach to the problem of interaction of particles and fields. In this respect also the general relativity and the motion of a bound electron can only theory of gravitation has nob fulfilled expecta- be followed during a number of periods, which is tions. In this respect also, the anomalous Zeeman effect, has proved most fruitful in general relativity theory of gravitation has not fulfilled connection with the new methods, as shown especially expectations.
In this respect, quantum theory presents us with a novel situation in physical science, but attention was called to the very close analogy with the situation as regards analysis and synthesis of experience, which we meet in many other fields of human knowledge and interest. In this respect, the role which teleological atomic physics. In this result we possess, as we shall see, a rational basis for the determination of the a-priori probability of the different stationary states of a given atomic system.
In this sense, the existence of life itself should be considered, both as regards its definition and observation, as a basic postulate of biology, not susceptible of further analysis, in the same way as the existence of the quantum of action, together with the ultimate atomicity of matter, forms the elementary basis of atomic physics. In this situation it is again upon atomic theory that interest is concen trated, although against a very different background. In this situation with deepening cleavage between nations and with spreading anxiety for the future, it would seem that the turning of the trend of events requires that a great issue be raised, suited to invoke the highest aspirations of mankind.
In this situation, an inherent element of ambiguity is involved in assigning conventional physical attri butes to atomic objects. In this situation, it is not surprising that atomic phenomena, observed under different experimental conditions, cannot be combined in a single picture and, at first sight, may even appear as contrasting with each other. In this situation, there could be no question of attempting a causal analysis of radiative phenomena, but only, by a combined use of the contrasting pictures, to estimate probabilities for the occurrence of the individual radiation processes. In this situation, we are faced with the necessity of a radical revision of the foundation for the description and explanation of physical phenomena.
In this space there will be a certain amount of energy contained in the rays emitted by the surrounding substances and crossing each other in every direction.
In this tEe wave andgagticle idea in the description of the free 76 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 77 iiltfiyidnalLThe apparent contrast in the utilization pi ber of dimensions of whichis equal to the number of the energy concept in the two theories is just connected de rees of f eedom s stem, and:hence in eneral v'vith'this difference in the starting-pong, reater than th ' ions of ordina e. r The fundamental difliculties opposing a space-time Further Sch " ' ulation of t ' tio description of a system of particlesin interaction appear problemLjust as the formulation Offered by matrix at once from the inevitability of the superposition prin- ciplein the description of the behmmmdflydggl WWE ation of the f r ' e b relativit theory.
In this theory ties of light and free material particles. In this theory, a formalism is introduced, in which the kinematical and dynamical variables of classical mechanics are replaced by symbols subjected to a non- commutative algebra. In this to the elements must always obey the com- connexion he has formulated the relation bination principle for spectral lines, Heisenberg AgAp~h . In this way Heisenberg has ground, been able to elucidate many paradoxes appearing in the In pursuing further the correspondence of the quantum application of the quantum postulate, and to a lar e laws with classical mechanics, the stress placed on the extent to demonstrate the consistency of the symbolic statistical character of the quantum-theoretical descrip- lmethod.
In this way Rubinowicz has arrived at several of the results discussed in the present paper; in this connection, however, it may be remarked that, from a consideration of conservation of angular momentum, it is not possible, even for systems possessing axial symmetry, to obtain as complete information, as regards the number and polarisation of the possible components, as from a consideration based on the resolution of the motion of the electron in harmonic vibrations.
In this way Sommerfeld obtained an expression for the total energy in the stationary states, which, with neglect of small quantities of higher order than the square of the ratio of the velocity of the electron and the velocity of light c, is given by1 ) 2 2 N 2 e4 m 2 N 2 e4 n1 , (68) E= 2 1+ 2 2 1+4 h (n1 + n2 )2 c h (n1 + n2 )2 n2 where, as in the calculations in 1, the charge and the mass of the electron are denoted by e and m, and for sake of generality the charge of the nucleus by N e. Further n1 and n2 are the integers appearing on the right side of the conditions (16) as factors to Plancks constant.
In this way Sommerfeld, Lande and others have shown that it is possible not only to account in a formal way for the complex structure of the lines of the series spectra, but also to obtain a promising interpretation of the complicated effect of external magnetic fields on this structure. In this way a number of results of great interest for the further elucidation of the origin of the Xray spectra have been attained. In this way he has obtained several of our results concerning the various types of possible transitions and the polarization of the emitted radiation.
In this way it seems possible to obtain a more direct illustration of the principles discussed in Part I; and we shall see moreover that the treatment in question may be used also in cases where the method of separation of variables cannot be applied. In this way there was brought to light a new feature of the relationship between the elements, which corresponds exactly with our present ideas of atomic structure, according to which the physical and chemical properties of an element depend in the first instance only on the electric charge of the atomic nucleus. In this way we obtain in the first place the result, that, for any value of the intensity of the external electric field, we must expect that the hydrogen lines will be split up in a number of sharp components.
In this way, however, it was not found possible to account in a satisfactory manner for the observations; and the difficulty in obtaining an explanation of the intensities on this basis was also strikingly brought out by the fact, that the number and relative intensities of the components observed varied in a remarkable way with the experimental conditions under which the lines were excited. In this way, it proved possible to interpret the results of the stopping power measurements as addi- tional support for ascribing to hydrogen and helium the atomic numbers i and 2 and in in conformity with general chemical evidence, particular with Rutherford and Royds' demonstration of the formation of helium gas by the collection of a-particles escaping from thin-walled emanation tubes.
In this way, though, no closer relation can be reached between the properties of the elements and the experimental results concerning the constituents of the atoms. In this work he was from the start assisted by John Cockcroft, who with his singular combination of scientific and technological insight was to become such a prominent collaborator of Rutherford. In those troubled years, the progress of nuclear physics had not relented and had even resulted in the realiza- tion of the possibilities of liberation of the immense energy stored in atomic nuclei.
In transitions of the first type n3 remains unchanged, and the emitted radiation is polarised parallel to the axis of symmetry, while the transitions of the second type, in which n3 varies by one unit, give rise to a radiation of circular polarisation in a plane perpendicular to this axis (see page 64). In view of the apparent remoteness of mathematical abstractions, often frightening wider circles, it may be noted that even elementary mathematical training allows school disciples to see through the famous paradox of the race between Achilles and the tortoise.
In view of the fantastic character of such extreme materialistic conceptions, it was a natural reaction when Aristotle, with his masterly comprehension of the knowledge of his time in physics as well as in biology, rejected atomic theory entirely and tried to provide a sufficiently broad frame for an account of the wealth of natural phenomena on the basis of essentially teleological ideas. In what follows I shall try merely to emphasize some points of view which seem to me important when considering the present state of the theory of spectra and the possibilities of its development in the near future.
In what follows, however, we shall confine ourselves to a consideration of the ordinary physical and chemical properties of the elements and the attempts which have been made to explain them on the basis of the concepts just outlined. In whatever way these difficulties may be solved it seems simplest to assume that the occurrence of magnetism, such as we meet in the elements of the fourth period, results from a lack of symmetry in the internal structure of the atom, thus preventing the magnetic forces arising from the motion of the electrons from forming a system of closed lines of force running wholly within the atom.
In with which the positional co-ordinate and the component th1s case the magnitude of the recoil, zit/A, is suflicientl y of momentum in a definite direction can be ascertained well defined in order not to give rise to an appreciabl e is therefore just given by formula (2). In words conforming with Rutherford's whole attitude, one may say that the aim of experimentation is to put questions to nature, and of course Rutherford owed his success in this task to his intuition in shaping such questions so as to permit the most useful answers. In xenon several of the levels present in niton have disappeared, and in krypton still more levels have fallen away. In- as large compared to the velocity of the icle. Inci- dentally, in the same year Anderson discovered the positron and Urey deuterium.
Incidentally, it may be added that paradoxes of the kind contemplated by Einstein are encountered also in such simple arrangements as sketched in Fig. Incidentally, it may be remarked that the construc tion and the functioning of all apparatus like dia phragms and shutters, serving to define geometry and timing of the experimental arrangements, or photo graphic plates used for recording the localization of atomic objects, will depend on properties of materials which are themselves essentially determined by the quantum of action.
Incidentally, it would seem that the recourse to three v-alued logic, sometimes proposed as means for dealing with the paradoxical features of quantum theory, is not suited to give a clearer account of the situation, since all well-defined experimental evidence, even if it cannot be analyzed in terms of classical physics, must be expressed in ordinary language making use of common logic. Incidentally, we may remark that, for the illustration of the preceding considerations, it is not relevant that experiments involving an accurate control of the momentum or energy transfer from atomic particles to heavy bodies like diaphragms and shutters would be very difficult to perform, if practicable at all.
Indeed on be taken so short that a Change of position of the particle account of the impossibility of attributing a definite in- during the time of observation may be neglected in com- stant to the recoil, we know the mean velocity in the parison to the lack of sharpness inherent in the deter- direction of observation during the scattering proce ss mination of position due to the finite resolving power of only with an accuracy zh/mA.
Indeed the finite interaction between object and measuring agencies conditioned by the very existence of the quantum of action entai]s because of the impossibility of controlling the reaction of the object on the measuring instruments if these are to serve their purpose the necessity of a final renunciation of the classical ideal of causality and a radical revision of our attitude towards the problem of physical reality.
Indeed the finite interaction between object and measuring agencies conditioned by the very existence of the quantum of action entails - because of the impossibility of controlling the reaction of the object on the measuring instruments, if these are to serve their purpose - the necessity of a final renunciation of the classical ideal of causality and a radical revision of our attitude towards the problem of physical reality.
Indeed the finite interaction between the possibility of an exchange of momentum be- object and measuring agencies conditioned by the tween the particle and the diaphragm; and the very existence of the quantum of action entails question of principal interest for our discussion because of the impossibility of controlling the is now to what extent the momentum thus reaction of the object on the measuring instru- exchanged can be taken into account in the ments if these are to serve their purposethe description of the phenomenon to be studied by necessity of a final renunciation of the classical the experimental arrangement concerned, of ideal of causality and a radical revision of our which the passing of the particle through the attitude towards the problem of physical reality.
Indeed this circumstance presents us with a situation concerning the analysis and synthesis of experience which is entirely new in physics and forces us to replace the ideal of causality by a more general viewpoint usually termed "complementarity." Indeed we have in each experimental arrangement suited for the study of proper quantum phenomena not merely to do with an ignorance of the value of certain physical quantities, but with the impossibility of defining these quantities in an unambiguous way. Indeed we slit in a diaphragm, we are, in the *freedom of have in each experimental arrangement suited choice offered by the last arrangement, just.
Indeed, Ehrenfest, the fertility of which appears strikingly in the the proper Vibrations Of the SchrOdinger wave equation promising investigations of Hund on the problem of have been found to furnish a representation of the the formation of molecules. Indeed, Einstein's ingenious formulation of general probability laws for the occurrence of the spontaneous radiative transitions between stationary states as well as of radiation induced transitions, and not least his analysis of the conservation of energy and momentum in the emission and absorption processes, was to prove basic for future developments. Indeed, Galileo's programme to base the descrip- tion of physical phenomena on measurable quantities has afforded a solid foundation for the ordering of an ever larger field of experience.
Indeed, Planck's discovery of the universal quantum of action taught us that the wide applicability of the accustomed description of the behaviour of matter in bulk rests entirely on the circumstance that the action involved in phenomena on the ordinary scale is so large that the quantum can be completely neglected. Indeed, a detailed investigation in collaboration with Rosenfeld showed that all the predictions of the theory in this respect could be fulfilled when due regard was taken to the mutual exclusive- ness of the fixation of the values of electric and magnetic intensities and the specification of the photon composition of the field. Indeed, a discontinous change of appears. Indeed, a limitation of responding energy and momentum as given by relation (1).
Indeed, already in the Manchester time he had these problems demanded the pointed out that any approach to assumption of forces of short range between the nuclear constituents, of a kind essentially different from the electric forces acting between charged particles. Indeed, any logical contradiction in these respects is excluded by the mathematical consistency of the formalism of quantum mechanics, which serves to express the statistical laws holding for observations made under any given set of experimental condi- tions. Indeed, any problem which calls for relevant application of Bose-Einstein or Fermi-Dirac statistics in principle excludes pictorial illustration.
Indeed, as Langevin showed, the value of the magneton could at any rate be approximately derived on the assumption that the electrons in atoms were rotating with angularmomenta corresponding to a Planck quantum. Indeed, at his arrival at the starting point of the turtle, Achilles would find that it had moved to some further point along the race track, and this situation would be repeated in an infinite sequence. Indeed, before Oppenheimer entered the office, Rutherford, with his keen appreciation of talents, had described the rich gifts of the young man, which in the course of time were to create for him his eminent position in scientific life in the United States.
Indeed, before Oppenheimer entered the office, Rutherford, with his keen appreciation of talents, had described the rich gifts of the young man, which m the course of time were to create for him his eminent posit10n in scientific life in the United States." Indeed, by completing in such unsuspected manner the evidence about the structure of the atom, interpretable by simple mechanical concepts, and at the same time revealing the inadequacy of such concepts for any problem related to the stability of atomic systems, Rutherford's discovery should not only serve as a guidance, but also remain a challenge at many later stages of the development of quantum physics. Indeed, convergent beam of light.
Indeed, evidence obtained under well-defined experimental conditions and expressed by adequate use of elementary physical exhausts in its all information about the atomic entirety concepts in common language. Indeed, from a masterly investigation, in which a number of new features of the phenomenon were Chadwick was able to revealed, prove that one was faced with momentum and energy exchanges through a neutral particle, the mass of which he determined as differ- ing from that of the proton by less than one part in a thousand. Indeed, from been made in recent times in all branches of our point of view, the feeling of the freedom of biology and have, not least, proved so beneficial the will must be considered as a trait peculiar to in the art of medicine.
Indeed, from our present stand- to be not so much as the study of some- point, physics is regarded but rather as the development of methods for thing a priori given, and human In this respect our task ordering surveying experience. Indeed, if this conclusion were confirmed, a first step would have been made towards the establishment of quantitative relationships between the properties of diiferent elements on the basis of the Rutherford model. Indeed, in all such respects quantum mechanics exhibits a correspondence with the state of affairs familiar from classical physics, which is as close as possible when considering the individuality inherent in the quantum phenomena.
Indeed, in both cases we are concerned with the exploration of harmonies which cannot be QUANTUM PHYSICS AND PHILOSOPHY 7 comprehended in the pictorial conceptions adapted to the account of more limited fields of physical experience. Indeed, in physical phenomena, we perceive in many ways greater simplicity the more the analysis proceeds, while the structure of the living organisms and their reactions appear ever more complicated with the advance of biological science. Indeed, in potassium we encounter for the first time in the sequence of the elements a case in which the principal quantum number of the orbit of the last electron bound is, in the normal state of the atom, larger than in one of the earlier stages of the binding process.
Indeed, in renouncing logical analysis to an increasing degree and in turn allowing the play on all strings of emotion, poetry, painting and music contain possibilities of bridging between extreme modes as those characterized as pragmatic and mystic. Indeed, in spite of the large Rutherford's scientific and administrative activities, the same spirit reigned in the Cavendish as we all had enjoyed so much in the early Manchester days. Indeed, in spite of the large and rapidly expanding scope of Rutherford's scientific and administrative activities, the same spirit reigned in the Cavendish as we all had enjoyed so much m the early Manchester days."
Indeed, in the account of ordinary experience it is taken under investigation are not interfered with for granted that the objects by the observation. Indeed, it appear that Only when the question is taken up the united what the various Powers are prepared to make as their Con- tribution to an adequate control arrangement, it will be possible for anyone of the partners to assure them- selves of the sincerity of the intentions of the others. Indeed, it became clear that the pictorial description of classical physical theories repre- sents an idealization valid only for phenomena in the analysis of which all actions involved are sufficiently large to permit the neglect of the quantum.
Indeed, it became evident that the formal representation of physical quantities by non-commuting operators directly reflects the relationship of mutual exclusion between the operations by which the respective physical quantities are defined and measured. Indeed, it is excluded in princip/e to control the energy hick goesinto the clocks without interfering essentially with their use as time inCh cators. Indeed, it is excluded in principle to general expression through the transformation control the energy which goes into the clocks without theorems, already referred to. Indeed, it is possible to derive Plancks law of radiation from this assumption alone, as shown by Debye, who employed a method which is a combination of that of Planck and of Jeans.
Indeed, it is scarcely an exaggeration to say that if the existence of the rareearths had not been established by direct chemical investigation, the occurrence of a family of elements of this character within the 6th period of the natural system of the elements might have been theoretically predicted. Indeed, it must be recog- nized that such evidence which appears contradictory when combina- tion into a single picture is attempted, exhausts all conceivable know- ledge about the object.
Indeed, it need hardly be stressed how fortunate in every respect it would be if, at the same time as the world will knoxv of the formidable destructive power which has come into human hands, it could be told that the great scientific and technical advance has been helpful in creating a solid foundation for a future peaceful co- operation between nations. Indeed, it seemed not possible to bring that the idea of complemenfirptyis suited to characterize the promising attempts made by Darwin and Pauli in the situation which e r ' 10 to t e generalizing the new methods to cover this problem general difficulty in the formation of human ideas, in- naturally, in connection with the relativity kinematical lErent in the distinction between subject and object.
Indeed, it toHOws from the above quately accounted for on the assumption of discrete consrderat1ons that the measurement of the positional stationary States and individual transition processes. Indeed, it was possible, with the aid of the correspondence principle, to account completely for the characteristic rules which govern the seemingly capricious occurrence of combination lines, and it is not too much to say that the quantum theory has not only provided a simple interpretation of the combination principle, but has further contributed materially to the clearing up of the mystery that has long rested over the application of this principle.
Indeed, just as previous technical prog- ress has led to the recognition of need for adjustments within civilized societies, many barriers between nations which hitherto were thought rlecessary for the defense of national interests would now obviously stand in the way of common security. Indeed, many terms used in practical physiology reflect a procedure of research in which, starting from the recognition of the functional role of the parts of the organism, one aims at a physical and chemical account of their finer structures and of the processes in which they are involved.
Indeed, mathematics is not to be regarded as a special branch of knowledge based on the accumulation of experience, but rather as a refinement of general language, supplementing it with appropriate which ordinary verbal communication tools to represent relations for is imprecise or too cumbersome. Indeed, on Newtonian mechanics, no system of point charges admits of a stable static equilibrium, and any motion of the electrons around the nucleus would, according to Maxwell's electro" "-dynamics, give rise to a dissipation of energy through radiation accompamed by a steady contraction of the system, resulting in the close combination of the nucleus and the electrons within a region of extens10n far smaller than atomic dimensions.
Indeed, on Newtonian mechanics, no system of point charges admits of a stable static equilibrium, and any motion of the electrons around the nucleus would, according to Maxwell's electrodynamics, give rise to a dissipation of energy through radiation accompanied by a steady contraction of the system, resulting in the close combination of the nucleus and the electrons within a region of extension far smaller than atomic dimensions. Indeed, on the basis of recent advances in technology, it is possible to design machines reacting in any prescribed manner, in- cluding their own repair and reproduction, provided that they have access to the necessary materials and energy sources.
Indeed, only in this way we obtain a basis for conclusions about the initial position of the other particle relative to the rest of the apparatus. Indeed, only in this way we obtain a mental procedures, permitting the unambiguous basis for conclusions about the initial position of definition of complementary physical quantities, the other particle relative to the rest of the appa- which provides room for new physical laws, the ratus. Indeed, our usual description of physical ordinarily met with compared to the velocity of phenomena is based entirely on the idea that the light, we learn from the quantum theory that the gfn:nomena concerned may be observed without appropriateness of our usual causal space-time isturbing them appreciably.
Indeed, proper appreciation of the duties and respon- sibilities implied in world citizenship is in our time more necessary than ever before. Indeed, renouncing pictorial description of the electronic constitution of the atomic systems and only making use of empirical knowledge of threshold and binding energies in molecular processes, we can within a wide field of experience treat the reactions of such systems by ordinary chemical kinetics, based on the well-established laws of thermodynamics. Indeed, taking this correction into account, the predicted THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 43 relationship between the spectra of hydrogen and ionized helium was in complete agreement with all the measurements.
Indeed, the ascertaining of the presence of an atomic particle in a limited space-time domain demands an experi- mental arrangement involving a transfer of momentum and energy to bodies such as fixed scales and synchronized clocks, which cannot be included in the description of their functioning, if these bodies are to fulfilthe role of defining the reference frame. Indeed, the close relation between the atomic dispersion and the selective absorp- tion of spectral lines so beautifully illustrated by the ingenious experi- ments of R. W. Wood and P. V. Bevan on the absorption and dispersion in alkali vapours, suggested from the very beginning a cor- respondence approach.
Indeed, the con- pure wave theory without referring to the quantum nexion of the latter theory with experience is postulate. Indeed, the connection of the stationary states. Indeed, the dimensions of the interextending to the very question of what may ference patterns, which on account of the wave be meant by a physical explanation, has not only nature of light set the limit for the image formation been essential, however, for the elucidation of the in the eye, practically coincide with the size of situation in atomic theory, but has also created such partitions of the retina which have separate a new background for the discussion of the relation nervous connexion with the brain.
Indeed, the feature of wholeness typical of proper quantum phenomena finds its logical expression in the cir- cumstance that any attempt at a well-defined subdivision would demand a change in the experimental arrangement incompatible with the definition of the phenomena under investigation. Indeed, the functions of the building blocks of modern mechanical and electromagnetic calculation devices are determined simply by their shape and by such ordinary material properties as mechanical rigidity, electric conductivity and magnetic susceptibility.
Indeed, the general the preceding analysis, essentially an outcome of theory of the Compton effect allows us to compute the limited accuracy with which changes in energy the momentum components in the direction of the and momentum can be defined, when the wave- radiation before and after the recoil from the wave- fields used for the determination of the space-time lengths of the incident and scattered radiation. Indeed, the general theory of relativity, by which Einstein in re- nouncing all ideas of absolute space and time gave our world picture a unity and harmony surpassing any previous dreams, offered an instruc- tive lesson as regards the consistency and scope of plain language.
Indeed, the general theory of the ing the position, not only the convergence but also the Compton effect allows us to compute the momentum length of the wave-train has to 'be taken into account, components in the direction of the radiation before and because the particle could change its place during the after the recoil from the wave-lengths of the incident and finite time of illumination. Indeed, the gradual clarification of these problems through the combined effort of a whole generation of physicists was in the following decades not only so largely to augment our insight in the atomic constitution of matter, but even to lead to a new outlook as regards the comprehension of physical experience.
Indeed, the impossibility in psychical experi ence to distinguish between the phenomena themselves and their conscious perception clearly demands a renunciation of a simple causal description on the model of classical physics, and the very way in which words like 'thoughts' and 'feelings' are used to describe such experience reminds one most suggestively of the complementarity encountered in atomic physics. Indeed, the introduction of the photon concept meant a revival of the old dilemma from Newton's and Huygens' days of the corpuscular or undulatory constitution of light, which had seemed resolved in favour of the latter by the establishment of the electromagnetic theory of radiation.
Indeed, the mechanics, including our account of the measuring necessity of considering the interaction between instruments used in atomic physics, depends on the measuring instruments and the object under the possibility of disregarding largely the cominvestigation in atomic mechanics corresponds plementarity, entailed by the quantum of action, elosely to the peculiar difficulties, met with in in the description of bodies containing very many psychological analyses, which arise from the fact atoms. Indeed, the numbers expressing the values of the quantum or spin in ordinary physical units do not concern direct measurements of classically defined actions or angular momenta, but are logically interpretable only by consistent use of the mathematical formalism of quantum theory.
Indeed, the occurrence of such processes is decisive for ensuring thermal equilibrium in a way analogous to the induced radiative transitions which played an essential role in Einstein's derivation of Planck's formula for temperature radiation. Indeed, the position of an It might even be conjectured that the arbitrariness in individual at two given moments can be measured with what is regarded as object and what as agency of ob- any desired degree of accuracy; but if, from such servation would open up a possibility of avoiding this measurements, we would calculate the velocity of the uncertainty altogether.
Indeed, the position of any value of the aperture the wave-train can an individual at two given moments can be always be taken so short that a change of position measured with any desired degree of accuracy ; of the particle during the time of observation may but if, from such measurements, we would cal- be neglected in comparison to the lack of sharpness culate the velocity of the individual in the ordinary inherent in the determination of position due to way, it must be clearly realised that we are dealing the finite resolving power of the microscope. Indeed, the proper plementary in the same sense as the wave and vibrations of the Schridinger wave equation have particle idea in the description of the free in- been found to furnish a representation of the dividuals.
Indeed, the so-called holistic and finalistic aspects of biological phenomena can certainly not be immediately explained by the feature of individuality of atomic processes disclosed by the discovery of the quantum of action; rather would the essentially statistical character of quantum me chanics at first sight seem even to increase the difficulties of understanding the proper biological regularities. Indeed, the spectral terms for such a system would be given by Z .R/ft which for 2 2 , = Z 2 yields the same result as the introduction of half-integral values of n in the Rydberg formula. Indeed, the two formulations of the possibilities of definition and observation.
Indeed, the whole conceptual structure of classical physics, brought to so wonderful a unification and completion by Einstein's work, rests on the assumption, well adapted to our daily experience of physical phenom ena, that it is possible to discriminate between the behaviour of material objects and the question of their observation. Indeed, the whole development should offer immense opportunities for a world-wide collaboration on the advance of science and the promotion of human welfare, but all such perspectives may be overshadowed by deadly menaces to civilization, unless in due time universal agreement be obtained about proper measures to avert misuse of the formidable power of destruction which has come into the hand of man.
Indeed, these do not even offer us the means of calculating the frequency of the emitted radiation. Indeed, these experiments may be said to open up a new epoch in natural philosophy in that for the first time the artificial transformation of one element into another has been accomplished. Indeed, these experiments yielded evidence about the existence of hitherto unknown isotopes of hydrogen and helium with atomic mass 3, the properties of which have in recent years attracted so much atten- tion.
Indeed, this circumstance may be regarded as the essential cause of the pronounced periodicity in the properties of the elements, in that it implies that the atomic dimensions and chemical properties of homologous substances in the different periods, as, for example, the alkali-metals, show a much greater similarity than that which might be expected from a direct comparison of the orbit of the last electron hound with an orbit of the same quantum number in the hydrogen atom. Indeed, this comparison offered the first experimental famous relation between energy and mass, to which test of Einstein's he had been led many years before by relativity arguments.
Indeed, this dis- covery provided a clue to the remarkable stability of atomic and mole- cular systems on which the properties of the substances composing our tools as well as our bodies ultimately depend. Indeed, this discovery offered for the first time an unquestionable explanation of the invariability of the elements in ordinary chemical reactions, in which minute heavy nucleus remains unaltered, while only the distribution of the light electrons around it is affected. Indeed, this law, which allowed themat one stroke to disentangle the multifarious phenomena of natural radioactivity then known, also proved the clue to the understanding of the later observed peculiar branching in spontaneous decay processes.
Indeed, this lesson suggests that the situation as regards objective description of biological phenomena reflects different ap- proaches in ordinary physiology and modern biochemistry. Indeed, this was the foundation for the whole edifice of Newtonian mechanics and even electromagnetic theory based on 0rsted's and Faraday's discoveries, which through their technological applications have so largely changed the frame of our daily life. Indeed, under such conditions experience cannot be combined in the accustomed manner, but the phenomena must be considered as com- plementary to each other in the sense that they together exhaust all information about the atomic objects which can be unambiguously expressed.
Indeed, volition plays an indispensable part in human communication similar to words like hope and responsibility, in themselves equally unde- finable outside the context in which they are used. Indeed, we are here reminded of the old wisdom that, in searching for harmony, we must never forget that we are as well actors as spectators in the great drama of existence. Indeed, we find oprselves here on the very path taken by Einstein of agpting our modes of perception borrowed from the spppanimto the gradually deepening knowledge of the laws of Nature.
Indeed, when we witness the passionate scientific controversies as regards the bearing on this problem of the recent discoveries of the poisoning effects and generative properties of so-called virus, we find ourselves presented with a dilemma just as acute as that with which Democritus and Aristotle were confronted. Indeed, whenever custom- ary ideas of the individuality of the particles can be upheld by ascertain- ing their location in separate spatial domains, all application of Fermi-Dirac and Bose-Einstein statistics is irrelevant in the sense that they lead to the same expression for the probability density of the particles.
Independently of a definite view of atomic structure it has been possible by means of a formal application of Kossels and Sommerfelds theories to disentangle the large amount of experimental material on Xray spectra. Indications of such novel features as regards electrons were already contained in Pauli's formulation of the exclusion principle, and in connection with the particle concept of radiation quanta Bose had at an even earlier stage called attention to a simple possibility of deriving Planck's formula for temperature radiation by the application of a statistics involving a departure from the way followed by Boltz- mann in the counting of complexions of a many-particle system, which had proved so adequate for numerous applications of classical statistical mechanics.
Inearlier Memorial Lectures, several of Rutherford's closest co-workers have recalled the inspiration which emanated from and enthusiasm and the charm of his impul- his vigour and rapidly expanding scope of sive ways. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation Project GutenbergTM depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest array of equipment including outdated equipment.
Information about the Mission of Project GutenbergTM Project GutenbergTM is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit 501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal Revenue Service. Information about this binding process may, however, be obtained from the arc spectrum of helium. Inparticular, as early as 1911, he had conceived the ingenious tracer method which has since become so powerful a tool in chemical and biological research.
Instead of a 21 orbit as in lithium we must thus assume for the spectrum of sodium not only that the first spectral term in the S series corresponds to a 31 orbit, but also, as a more detailed consideration shows, that the first term in the P series corresponds not to a 22 orbit as indicated in fig. Instead of the curves drawn between points in fig. Instead of the simple decomposition into harmonic components corresponding to a simple Kepler motion, the displacement of the electron in a given direction in space can be expressed in the present case by the formula X = C, cos 2 t( + ) + c, , (22) where is the average frequency of revolution in the perturbed orbit and is the period of the orbital perturbations, while C, and c, are constants.
Instead of the value 109675 generally assumed, the theoretical value for a heavy atom is 109735. Instead we obtain a motion of precisely the same kind as that occurring in the hydrogen atom perturbed by a small central field. International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the United States. Inthe first weeks of my stay in the laboratory, I followed, on Rutherford's advice, an introductory course on the experimental methods of radioactive research which under the experienced instruction of Geiger, Makower and Marsden was arranged for the benefit of students and new visitors.
Intpe adaptation of the relativpy requirement tgphe quantum postulate, we must therefore be prepared to meet with a renunciation as to visualization in the ordinarLsense going still further than in the formulation of the quantum laws considered here. Introducing a function of the s and s, equal to the mean value of the potential taken over a period of the motion of the undisturbed system and defined by the formula Z 1 t+ dt, (45) = t it is easily seen, since depends only on 1 , that the mean values of the partial differential coefficients of with respect to 2 , .
Introducing from (41) the values of En and n , and neglecting, here as well as in the following calculations in this section, the small correction due to the finite mass of the nucleusnot only in the expression for the additional energy but, for the sake of brevity, also in the main termwe get for these limits E= 3h2 n2 2 2 N 2 e4 m F, h2 n2 8 2 N em (75) which formula coincides with the expression previously deduced by the writer by applying the condition I = nh to the two (physically not realisable) limiting cases, corresponding to z = 1 and cos = 1, in which the orbit remains periodic in the presence of the field.1 ) In order to obtain further information as to the values of the energy in the stationary states in the presence of the 1 ) See N. Bohr, Phil.
Introducing the experimental values for e, h and c, it is found that e2 /hc is a small quantity of the same order as 103 ; and, unless N is large number, the second term within the bracket on the right side of (68) will consequently be very small compared with unity. Introducing the new variables, the total energy of the perturbed system will be a function of I, I1 , . Introducing the same set of orbital constants as described in 2 on page 104, we get in this case that M , as well as E , and consequently the function = E + M which enters in the equations (46), will, besides on 1 , depend on 2 , 2 and 3 but not on 3 . Introducing this value of n in (6) we see that n disappears from the equation, and further that the equation will be satisfied only if 2 2 e4 m .
Inversely it will therefore be seen that the qs, and also the ps which were given by pk = S , qk (k = i, . Inversely, if the system under consideration allows of separation of variables in an infinite continuous multitude of sets of coordinates, we must conclude that generally every motion which satisfies (24) will be stationary, because in general it will be possible for any such motion to find a set of coordinates in which it satisfies also (22).
Iremember especially how, at my last stay with him a few weeks before his death, he was fascinated by the complemen tary approach to biological and social problems and how eagerly he discussed the possibility of obtaining experimental evidence on the origin of national traditions and prejudices by such unconventional procedures as the interchange of newborn (hildren between nations." Is , (25) if the coordinates are so chosen that the motion corresponding to every degree of freedom is of oscillating type. It -was even more important, for it proved quantitatively for the first time the validity of Einstein's equation W-=mc2 (where W energy produced in ergs; m the loss of mass, and c the velocity of light) expressing the equivalence of mass and energy originally announced in 1908.
It Hitherto we have only regarded certain general might even be conjectured that the arbitrariness features of the quantum problem. It appeared from their results that by means of electron impacts it was impossible to impart to an atom an arbitrary amount of energy, but only such amounts as corresponded to a transfer of the atom from its normal state to another stationary state of the existence of which the spectra assure us, and the energy of which can be inferred from the magnitude of the spectral term. It appeared, in fact, that the X-ray spectra of the different elements possessed a much simpler structure and a much greater mutual resemblance than their optical spectra.
It appears likely that a theory of nuclear structure must essentially be a wave theory such as Bohr and others developed for the electron structure of the outer atom. It appears no longer possible to justify the assumption that in the normal states the electrons move in orbits of special geometrical simplicity, like electronic rings. It appears that a necessary condition for the correctness of this view is that the frequencies of the components of spectral lines produced by the electric field can be expressed by a formula of the type (2). It can also be shown that orbits which are very near to these limiting cases will be very nearly stationary.
It can be seen that it is impossible to employ Rutherfords atomic model so long as we confine ourselves exclusively to the ordinary electrodynamics. It can be seen that these conclusions summarize the experimental observations on the helium spectra. It can be seen, therefore, that the effect of the inner system on the energy necessary to remove this electron from the atom must become less for increasing values of k. These beautiful results suggest the possibility of finding laws of force for the perturbing central field which would account for the spectra observed. It can be shown that the coherent class of motions to which the orthohelium orbits belong does not contain a 11 orbit.
It can be shown that, for any system containing one electron rotating in a closed orbit, the assumption C and the relation (2) will secure a connexion between the frequency calculated by (1) and that to be expected from ordinary electrodynamics, in the limit where the difference between the frequency of the rotation of the electron in successive stationary states is very small compared with the absolute value of the frequency (see IV. It can now be shown that a transition between two stationary states, for which the values of the quantum number are respectively equal to n0 and n00 , will correspond to a harmonic component, for which = n0 n00 .
It can readily be shown that such a motion can be decomposed into two series of harmonic components, whose frequencies can be expressed by + and respectively, where is a whole number, the frequency of revolution in the rotating periodic orbit and the frequency of the superposed rotation. It can very simply be shown that the mean value of the potential energy relative to the field for these rectilinear orbits is equal to , where is the external electric force and the major axis of the orbit, and the two signs correspond to orbits in which the direction of the major axis from the nucleus is the same or opposite to that of the electric force respectively. It cannot be expected that the 7th electron will be bound in a 21 orbit equivalent to the orbits of the four preceding electrons.
It character of the exchange relation (3). It consists of a shutter rigidly connected with a robust clock resting on the support which carries a diaphragm and on which further parts of similar character, regulated by the same clock-work or by other clocks standardised relatively to it, are also to be fixed. It corresponds exactly with the one obtained by a different method by Epstein and Schwarzschild.
It does not appear necessary to assume the anomalous effect of small fields on the doublet components to be due to a failure of the ordinary electrodynamical laws for the description of the motion of the outer electron, but rather to be connected with an effect of the magnetic field on that intimate interaction between the motion of the inner and outer electrons which is responsible for the occurrence of the doublets. It does not seem that there is any escape from the conclusion that it is impossible to account for the phenomena of temperature radiation on ordinary electrodynamics, and that the modification to be introduced in this theory must be essentially equivalent with the assumptions first used by Planck in the deduction of his radiation formula.
It enabled the calculation of much general atomic and molecular data, e.g. It established the use of Einstein's equation in its application to such transformations, and later this had such important consequences in the practical study of nuclear energy. It exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life. It follows consequently that, with this approximation, the alteration in the energy in a given stationary state, due to the presence of the second perturbing field, is equal to the mean value of the potential of this field taken over the cycle of shapes and positions, which the orbit would pass through in the corresponding stationary state of the perturbed system under the influence of the first external field only.
It follows immediately from this result according to the principle of correspondence that each fine structure component must be expected to split up into a normal Zeeman effect (Lorentz triplet). It follows therefore that the integration in the second of the conditions (16) has to be taken over a complete revolution of the radius-vector, and that consequently this condition is equivalent with the simple condition that the angular momentum of the particle round the centre of the field is equal to an entire multiple h . It gave the clue to and was the start of a whole series of observations of such transformations. It had in Rutherford's time seven professors and about 250 registered undergraduate students.
It has also led to the prediction of certain simple relations between the frequencies of the Xray lines from one and the same element and has proved to be a suitable basis for the classification of the complete spectrum. It has been attempted to show that, applying these assumptions to Rutherfords theory of the structure of atoms, it seems possible to obtain an explanation of the laws of line-spectra discovered by Balmer, Rydberg, and Ritz. It has been easy, however, to find a theoretical explanation of this point. It has been necessary to introduce the idea of internal nuclear attractive forces applicable only for short distances and of a different nature to and falling off with distance more rapidly than electric or magnetic forces.
It has been shown that ions can only be directly produced by collisions when the kinetic energy of the electrons corresponds to the limit of the series, and that the ionization found at first was an indirect effect arising from the photoelectric effect produced at the metal walls of the apparatus by the radiation arising from the return of the mercury atoms to the normal state. It has further been attempted to show that it seems possible to account for some of the general features of the effect of magnetic and electric fields on spectral lines discovered by Zeeman and Stark. It has nevertheless been in- cluded in the present volume, because of the interest which attaches PREFACE Vll to the views it contains, but the reader must bear in mind the pre- liminary character of their formulation.
It has not been proved that the configurations proposed are inconsistent with the assumption C. But even if it were possible to prove that the unrestricted use of ordinary mechanics to the stationary states is inconsistent with the configurations of the electrons, apparently necessary to explain the observed properties of the elements, this would not constitute a serious objection to the deductions in my papers. It has not yet been possible on the basis of this theory to explain any other spectra besides those which I have already mentioned. It has recently acquired increased interest by Fowlers work on the series spectra of enhanced lines emitted from many elements when subject to a powerful electric discharge.
It has recently been argued that the lines are not so sharp as should be expected from the atomic weight of helium on Lord Rayleighs theory of the width of spectral lines. It involved the individual counting by eye by the scintillation method one by one of over a million ac-particles. It is a familiar fact, that the elements in the fourth period differ markedly from the elements in the preceding periods partly in their magnetic properties and partly in the characteristic colours of their compounds. It is a great pleasure to be with you to-day and I owe that good fortune to your acceptance of the suggestion by the Royal Society which controls a fund of ?100 000 collected in the Commonwealth and dedicated to the memory of Lord Rutherford.
It is a matter of history how the huge industrial effort required for more immediate atomic bomb production was taken over by the United States with consequences which burst on an astonished world at Hiroshima. It is a question of 'knowhow', of engineering and of metallurgy and the choice of natural or enriched atomic fuels, moderators and coolants. It is against this background that quantum mechanics may be seen to fulfil all demands on rational explanation with respect to consistency and completeness.
It is also immediately seen that corresponding to the motion of an electron in an elliptical orbit round a nucleus, there will be a motion of the n electrons in which each rotates in an ellip- tical orbit with the nucleus in the focus, and the n electrons at any moment are situated at equal angular intervals on a circle with the nucleus as the centre. It is also of interest in assumption entails for the description of collision and this connection to mention that Jordan and Klein have fadiation reactions, it is essential to consider the limita- recently arrived at the formulation of the problem of tfons of the poss1bilities of definition of the reacting Eee interaction expressed by the SchrOdinger wave equation, individuals, which is expressed by relation (2).
It is also of interest in this connexion bilities of observation and those of definition can to mention that Jordan and Klein (Zeitsch. It is also pointed out by Nicholson that Moseleys explanation would imply the emission of several quanta at the same time; but this assumption is apparently not necessitated for the explanation of other phenomena. It is also possible to give a simple interpretation of the peculiar colours exhibited by the compounds of these elements in much the same way as in the case of the family of iron metals in the fourth period. It is always difficult for the university authorities to assess the relative merits of candidates who present work from the various University Colleges and in different sciences, fortuitous factors influence the choice.
It is based on the principle of building up hydrogen and/or its isotopes deuterium or tritium into helium or possibly with other light atoms such as lithium. It is characteristic of the broadness of Rutherford's views that he early anticipated the presence in nuclei of a heavy neutral 66 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE constituent of a mass closely coinciding with that of the proton. It is clear that such a development of an inner group is everywhere reflected in the curves. It is clear that the a-particle, neutron and proton will probably give rise to different types of disintegration and it may be significant that so far results have only been observed in 4^ + 3 elements.
It is clear that, when by a slow transformation of a conditionally periodic system we approach a degenerate system of this kind, the time-interval which the orbit takes to pass close to any possible configuration will tend to be very long and will become infinite when the degenerate system is reached. It is clear, however, that such a connection is just afforded by Ehrenfests principle which allows us to transform mechanically the stationary states of a given system into those of another, because for the latter system we may take one in which the forces which act on the particles are very small and where we may assume that the values of the energy in all the stationary states will tend to coincide. It is clear, however, that we must be prepared shortly to meet entirely new conditions.
It is due to the fact that the perturbation of the motion will not only consist in an effect upon the components originally present, but in addition will give rise to new components. It is easily seen, however, cept is excluded by the quantum postulate. It is easily seen, however, that the resulting 4. It is easily shown that this fixation of the value of the minor axis is equivalent to the statement that the parameter 2p of the elliptical orbit is given by an expression of exactly the same form as that which gives the major axis 2a in the unperturbed atom.
It is especially suggestive as to the character of the situation that the smallness of ct depends on the finite value of h in a way which does not allow any asymptotic transition to classical pictures without losing the inherent stability of atomic structures and the specification of essential properties of the elementary particles, like their spin and statistics. It is evident that systems like the nuclear atom, if based upon the usual mechanical and electrodynamical conceptions, would not even possess sufficient stability to give a spectrum consisting of sharp lines.
It is evident that this assumption may explain the peculiar position already referred to which hydrogen occupies among the elements, but it appears at the outset completely hopeless to attempt to explain anything at all of the special properties of hydrogen, still less its line spectrum, on the basis of considerations relating to such a simple system. It is evident that words like thoughts and sentiments, referring to mutually exclusive experiences, have been used in a typical com- plementary manner since the very origin of language. It is evident, however, that all search for an ultimate subject is at variance with the aim of objective description, which demands the contraposition of subject and object.
It is evident, however, that on the basis of our views of atomic structure, such an opportunity is always at hand as soon as an electron has been removed from one of these groups. It is found that if the change in the mass of the electron due to its velocity is taken into consideration the orbit of the electron no longer remains a simple ellipse, but its motion may be described as a central motion obtained by superposing a slow and uniform rotation upon a simple periodic motion in a very nearly elliptical orbit. It is found that this energy condition can be given a simple geometrical interpretation.
It is further im portant to realize that any determination of Planck's constant rests upon the comparison between aspects of the phenomena whichcan be described only by means of pictures not combinable on the basis of classical physical theories. It is furthermore instructive to consider the condi tions for the determination of positional and dynamical- variables in a state of a system with several atomic constituents. It is here an essential circumstance that the restriction on the course of the binding process, which is expressed by the presence of electron orbits with higher quantum numbers in the normal state of the atom, can be naturally connected with the general condition for the occurrence of transitions between stationary states, formulated in that principle.
It is however easily explained from our point of view. It is illuminating for the understanding of the general attitude of physicists at that time that the uniqueness of .the fundament for such exploration given by Rutherford's discovery of the atomic nucleus was not yet generally appreciated. It is important, however, that I should indicate briefly how the fundamental ideas of the theory and the assumption that in the states corresponding to the spectra one electron moves in an orbit around the others, are both supported by investigations on selective absorption and the excitation of spectral lines by bombardment by electrons.
It is impossible here to sketch, even in outline, the tremendous develop ment of physics and chemistry since the days of Galvani, or to enumerate the discoveries in all branches of biology in the last century. It is in beautiful agreement with what we have assumed about the structure of the atoms of copper and zinc, that the magnetism disappears with those ions containing 28 electrons which, as I stated, must be assumed to contain a complete group of 3quanta orbits. It is in this respect that quantum theory has called for a renewed revision of the foundation for the unambiguous use of elementary concepts, as a further step in the development which, since the advent of relativity theory, has been so characteristic of modern science.
It is indeed only the appreci- ation of such harmony or unity which can help us to keep a balanced attitude to our position and avoid that confusion which the tumultuous progress of science and technology in almost every field of human interestmay so easily produce. It is indeed the recognition of this situation which makes the recourse to a mode of description imperative as regards the expectations statistical of the occurrence of individual quantum effects in one and the same experimental arrangement, and which removes any apparent contra- diction between phenomena observed under mutually exclusive experi- mental conditions.
It is interest ing to note how Bohr contrasts the two aspects of the emergence of quantum theory: on one hand it achieved, or even went beyond, the Pythagorean goal of explaining Nature through pure numbers, and on the other hand, in order to achieve this, the old deterministic principles had to be abandoned.] It is interesting to read the correspondence which was exchanged between Bohr and Rutherford as the former worked out and wrote up the hypothesis for publication. It is just arguments of this kind which recall the impossibility of subdividing quantum phenomena and reveal the ambiguity in ascribing customary physical attributes to atomic objects.
It is just on this background that quite unique opportunities exist today for furthering co- operation between nations on the progress of human culture in all its aspects. It is just this entirely new situation as regards the description of physical phenomena that the notion of complementarity aims at characterising. It is just this entirely new situation as regards the description of physical phenomena, that the notion of comp/ementarity aims at characterizing. It is just to this circumstance that we owe the great importance of spectral analysis, which has been such an invaluable aid to the chemist in the search for new elements, and has also shown us that even on the most distant bodies of the universe there occur elements with exactly the same properties as on the earth.
It is most suggestive to think that the germ which, in the hands of Volta, Oersted, Faraday, and Maxwell, was to develop into a structure rivalling Newtonian mechanics in importance grew out of researches with a biological aim. It is nevertheless possible to give a general explanation of the chemical properties of the elements without touching on those matters at all. It is not necessary for me to state here how it has been shown in recent years that isotopes are found not only among the radioactive elements, but also among ordinary stable elements; in fact, a large number of the latter that were previously supposed simple have been shown by Aston's well-known investigations to consist of a mixture of isotopes with different atomic weights.
It is of course a commonplace that the discoveries and applications of science are the leading features of the present age. It is of course not my intention here to go deeper into such special points; I wished only to emphasize that in these fields the logical correlations can only be won by a far-reaching renunciation of the usual demands of visualization. It is of great interest to read how Nernst in his report remarked that the well-known theorem regarding 82 > ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE the entropy at absolute zero, of which since 1906 he had made im- portant applications, now appeared as a special case of a more general law derived from the theory of quanta.
It is of interest to note that the theory can also naturally account for the fact that these elements, which resemble each other in so many ways, still show great differences in their magnetic properties. It is on this background that such notions as purposefulness and self-preservation, referring to the behaviour of organisms as entities, have found fruitful application in biological research. It is only decisive that, in contrast to the proper measuring instruments, these bodies together with the particles would in such a case constitute the system to which the quantum-mechanical formalism has to be applied.
It is possible however to obtain a quantitative estimate of the relative intensity of the various components of the Stark effect of hydrogen, by correlating the numerical values of the coefficients C, in formula (22) with the probability of the corresponding transitions between the stationary states. It is possible, however, to characterize by one and the same condition the motion in the stationary states of a hydrogen atom which is perturbed by any central field. It is possible, however, to obtain an immediate insight into the stationary states involved in the emission of the series spectra by considering the empirical laws which have been discovered about the spectral terms.
It is probable that they would have been repugnant to him for he was essentially an internationalist; probably no scientist in history has been, during his lifetime, so much respected and trusted internationally. It is quite natural to make this assumption; since, in trying to form a reasonable conception of the stationary states, there is, for the present at least, no other means available besides the ordinary mechanics. It is quite otherwise in the case of atoms. It is readily seen that there can be no question of a direct application of Plancks theory. It is readily seen that this is no longer the case for the 19th electron. It is scarcely necessary particles. It is scarcely necessary to mention that accurate.
It is scarcely necessary, however, to emphasize that the theory is yet in a very preliminary stage, and many fundamental questions still await solution. It is seen that Ladenburgs ideas exhibit certain formal similarities with the interpretation I have given above of the appearance of the fourth period, and it is interesting to note that our view, based on a direct investigation of the conditions for the formation of the atoms, enables us to understand the relation emphasized by Ladenburg.
It is seen that the theory reproduces completely the main feature of the experimental results, and in the light of the correspondence principle we can say that the Stark effect reflects down to the smallest details the action of the electric field on the orbit of the electron in the hydrogen atom, even though in this case the reflection is so distorted that, in contrast with the case of the Zeeman effect, it would scarcely be possible directly to S T R U C T U R E O F T H E A T O M 31 recognize the motion on the basis of the classical ideas of the origin of electromagnetic radiation. It is simply seen that any orbit which satisfies (24) for a value of n > 1, will also satisfy (22) for a suitable choice of elliptical coordinates.
It is still a moot point how much ionization is, or should be, produced to account for the absorption, disregarding the collisions with nuclei. It is tempting to sketch a picture of the atoms formed by the capture and binding of electrons around nuclei having higher charges, and thus to obtain some idea of the properties which the corresponding hypothetical elements might be expected to exhibit. It is therefore evident, that where the two electrons move in the same plane, the electron captured last cannot be bound firmer than in a 21 orbit.
It is therefore hardly too early to express the opinion that, whatever the final explanation will be, the discovery of energy quanta must be considered as one of the most important results arrived at in physics, and must be taken into consideration in investigations of the properties of atoms and particularly in connection with any explanation of the spectral laws in which such phenomena as the emission and absorption of electromagnetic radiation are concerned. It is therefore very convenient that it is possible to show that to obtain the laws of temperature radiation it is not necessary to make any assumptions about the systems which emit the radiation except that the amount of energy emitted each time shall be equal to h, where h is Plancks constant and is the frequency of the radiation.
It is this very circumstance which energy and momentum, in the case of the electrical gives rise to the paradoxical character of the particles the electric charge has to be taken into problem of the nature of light and of material account in this connexion. It is this very circumstance which gives rise ticles as well as the collision of two such particles. It is thus only as long as we may completely ignore, in the description of all the important circumstances of the event, all interaction between the object and these measuring instruments, which unavoidably accompanies the establishment of any such connection, that we can speak of an autonomous space-time behavior of the object under observation, independent of the conditions of observation.
It is to be hoped that a further investigation of the magnetic properties will give us a clue to the way in which the group of electrons in 3quanta orbits is developed step by step. It is to be remarked, however, that such a static model of electronic configuration will not be possible if we assume the forces within the atom to be due exclusively to the electric charges of the particles.
It is true shown that, if the momentum of the diaphragm that such a control will essentially depend on an is measured with an accuracy sufficient for allow- examination of the space-time course of some ing definite conclusions regarding the passage of process to which the ideas of classical mechanics the particle through some selected slit of the can be applied; if, however, all spatial dimensions second diaphragm, then even the minimum un- and time intervals are taken sufficiently large, certainty of the position of the first diaphragm this involves clearly no limitation as regards the compatible with such a knowledge will imply the accurate control of the momentum of the test total wiping out of any interference effectre- bodies, but only a renunciation as regards the garding the zones of permitted impact of the accuracy of the control of their space-time coor- particle on the photographic plateto which the dination.
It is true that it is possible characteristics of its species into a minute germ by such instruments essentially to increase our cell. It is true that some degree of mutual open- ness was envisaged as an integral part of any inter- national arrangement regarding atomic energy, but it grew ever more apparent that, in order to pave the way for agreement about such arrangements, a de- cisive initial step towards openness had to be made.
It is true that such a control will essentially depend on an examination of the space-time course of some process to which the ideas of classical mechanics can be applied; if, however, all spatial dimensions and time intervals are taken sufficiently large, this involves clearly no limitation as regards the accurate control of the momentum of the test bodies, but only a renunciation as regards the accuracy of the control of their space-time coordination. It is true that the although the very essence of this theory is the place within each measuring procedure where this establishment of new physical laws, in the discrimination is made is in both cases largely a comprehension of which we must renounce the matter of convenience.
It is true that this point of view at first closer analysis of the physical content of the quantum did not, as regards quantitative results, lead beyond the 74 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 75 earlier methods of quantum theory, to the development connection he succeeded in obtaining a statistical inter- of which Sommerfeld has contributed so essentially. It is true that we have freely made use of such words as "before" and "after" implying timerelationships; but in each case allowance must be made for a certain inaccuracy, which is of no importance, however, so long as the time intervals concerned are sufficiently large compared with the proper periods entering in the closer analysis of the phenomenon 'under investigation.
It is true that when we moon through look at the a telescope we receive light from the sun from the moon- reflected surface, but the recoil from this reflection is far too small to have any effect on the position and velocity of a body as heavy as the moon. It is true that, from the point of view of relativistic argumentation, such attributes of physical objects as position and velocity of material bodies, and even electric or magnetic field intensities, can no longer be 1 The purpose ot this article is to give a very brief survey on some epistemological problems raised in atomic physics.
It is true we no longer think that the rotation is reflected in the spectra in the way claimed by classical electrodynamics, but rather that the line components are due to transitions between stationary states which differ as regards rotational motion. It is typical of biological researches, howthat the mental content is invariably altered when ever, that the external conditions to which any the attention is concentrated on any single feature separate atom is subjected can never be controlled of it. It is unnecessary to point out the hypothetical nature of these considerations, but the intention is only to show that it does not seem impossible to obtain simple interpretations of the spectra observed on the general principles of the theory.
It is well known that the elements can be arranged as regards their ordinary physical and chemical properties in a natural system which displays most suggestively the peculiar relationships between the different elements. It is well known that the lines of the Xray spectra may be divided into groups corresponding to the different characteristic absorption regions for Xrays discovered by Barkla. It is well known that the seventh period is not complete, for no atom has been found having an atomic number greater than 92.
It is well known that the wavelengths of the spectral lines of a substance, which can in many cases be measured with an accuracy of more than one part in a million, are, in the same external circumstances, always exactly the same within the limit of error of the measurements, and quite independent of the previous treatment of this substance.
It is, The application of the conception of stationary in fact, possible in a description of the state of states demands that in any observation, say by an atom to a considerable extent to neglect the means of collision or radiation reactions, permitting reaction of radiation, thus disregarding the un- a distinction between different stationary states, we sharpness in the energy values connected with the are entitled to disregard the previous history of the lifetime of the stationary states according to atom.
It is, in fact, perties with classical electrodynamics, demanded by the possible in a description of the state of an atom to a con- correspondence rinciple, the reciprocal exclusion of the siderable extent to neglect the reaction Of radiation, thus conception of stationary states and the description of the disregarding the unsharpness in the energy values con behaviour of individual particles in the atom might be nected with the lifetime of the stationary states according regarded as a difficulty. It is, of course, tempting to pursue such considerations, but at each further step new difficulties turn up, inherently connected with the limited scope of the concepts available for such inquiry.
It is, of course, true that in atomic physics we are confronted with a number of unsolved fundamental problems, especially as regards the intimate relationship between the elementary unit of electric charge and the universal quantum of action; but these problems are no more connected with the epistemological points here discussed than is the adequacy of relativistic argumentation with the issue of thus far unsolved problems of cosmology. It looks as if the addition of the 4th proton leads at once to the formation of an a-particle and the con- sequent disintegration. It made possible one of the first major pieces of work, i.e. It makes clear at once that these properties can be divided into two sharply distinguished classes.
It may also be added that it obviously can make no difference as regards observable effects obtainable by a definite experimental arrangement, whether our plans of constructing or handling the instruments are fixed beforehand or whether we prefer to postpone the completion of our planning until a later moment when the particle is already on its way from one instrument to another. It may also be mentioned how Einstein's intuitive recognition of the intimate relationship between the law of radioactive transformations and the probability rules governing individual radiation effects was confirmed by the quantum-mechanical explanation of spontaneous nuclear disintegrations. It may also be mentioned significance for high quantum numbers.
It may also be remarked that de Broglie and Dauvillier in a recent paper have thought it possible to find support in the experimental material for certain assumptions about the numbers of electrons in the groups of the atom to which Dauvillier had been led by considerations about the periodic system similar to those proposed by Langmuir and Ladenburg. It may also be remarked that the wave function given by formula (9) of the article cited corresponds to the special choice of P2 = 0 and the limiting case of two infinitely narrow slits instrument rigidly fixed to the support which defines the space frame of reference.
It may be considered, in support of this conclusion, that we obtain the same simple relation (11) between the frequency of revolution and the mean value of the kinetic energy as was found without the field, page 5 In the presence of an electric field we shall therefore assume the existence of two series of stationary states of the hydrogen atom, in which the energy is given by (19). It may be expected that it will be possible to observe spectra of a new class corresponding to a loss of 3 electrons from the atom, and in which the Rydberg constant No definite evidence, however, has so far beenobtained of the existence of such spectra.
It may be mentioned that Vegard in his investigations on the Xray spectra has also proposed the assumption of successively increasing quantum numbers for the electronic orbits in the various groups of the atom, reckoned from the nucleus outward. It may be noticed that the expressions are independent of the degree of eccentricity of the orbits. It may be noticed that these considerations bear an analogy to the theory of Sommerfeld ( c. f .
It may be noticed, however, that, while on the first theory radiations of the different frequencies corresponding to different values of are emitted or absorbed at the same time, these frequencies will on the present theory, based on the fundamental assumption I and II, be connected with entirely different processes of emission or absorption, corresponding to the transition of the system from a given state to different neighbouring stationary states. It may be of interest to insert here a few words about a new paper of Coster which appeared after this address was given, and in which he has succeeded in obtaining an extended and detailed connection between the Xray spectra and the ideas of atomic structure given in this essay.
It may be of interest to note that an investigation of the limitation of the possibility of transitions between stationary states, based upon a simple consideration of conservation of angular momentum during the process of radiation, does not, contrary to what has previously been supposed (compare Essay II, page 94), suffice to throw light on the remarkably simple structure of series spectra illustrated by the figure. It may be of interest to recall that the possible significance of the angular momentum in applications of the quantum theory to atomic processes was first pointed out by Nicholson on the basis of the fact that for a circular motion the angular momentum is simply proportional to the ratio of the kinetic energy to the frequency of revolution.
It may be remarked that instead of considering the single electrons we might have considered the ring as an entity. It may be remarked that the fact, that it has not been possible to observe more than 12 lines of the Balmer series in experiments with vacuum tubes, n while 33 lines are ob- served in the spectra of some celestial bodies, is just what we should expect from the above theory. It may be stated here that the values of the energy of the atom and the major axis of the orbit of the electron which are found if we put n = 1 in formulae (3) and (4) are of the same order of magnitude as the values of the firmness of binding of electrons and of the dimensions of the atoms which have been obtained from experiments on the electrical and mechanical properties of gases.
It may be stated, that this view not only appears to offer an explanation of the magnitude of the terms, but that the complexity of the terms in the P and D series finds a natural explanation in the deviation of the configuration of the ten electrons first bound from a purely central symmetry. It may be, Boron I 1 captures a proton and breaks up into three alphas, while fluorine breaks up into oxygen and an alpha. It may further be remarked that Poincare ( Journ. It may here be recalled that an important preliminary step towards this goal was reached through the establishment, especially by contributions of Kramers, of a quantum theory of dispersion making basic use of Einstein's general rules for the probability of the occurrence of absorption and emission processes.
It may in this connection be noted that the degree of approximation, involved in the determination of the frequencies of an atomic system by means of relation (1) if in the fixation of the stationary states we look apart from small forces of the same order of magnitude as the radiation forces in ordinary electrodynamics, would appear to be intimately connected with the limit of sharpness of the spectral lines, which depends on the total number of waves contained in the radiation emitted during the transition between two stationary states. It may in this connexion be of interest to mention a generalization of the considerations to which we are led by experiments on the photo-electric effect, and which may be able to throw some light on the problem in question.
It may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. It may therefore not be permissible to calculate the Rydberg constant directly from the hydrogen spectrum. It meant of course that he was no longer likely to be a small farmer. It must be emphasised, how- observations leading to the fixation of a stationary ever, that this connexion cannot be regarded as a state and earlier observations on the behaviour of gradual transition towards classical theory in the the separate particles in the atom. It must be emphasized that only in the case of circular orbits has the angular momentum any connexion with the principles of the Quantum theory.
It must be kept Similarly, the superposition of two characteristic solu in mind, howeverehat igst in the resonance problem tions corresponds to a continuous vibrating distribution mentioned we are concerned MW of electrical charge, which on classical electrodynamics according to the View presented here, is not accessible to would give rise to an emission of radiation, illustrating observation. It must be quantumtheoretical methods meant, to begin with,just emphaSIZe , ow , a 3 connection cannot be a quantitative formulation of this correspondence con- regar e as a gra ua at s c assma t egy sideration.
It must be recognized, however, that we are here dealing with a purely symbolic procedure, the unambiguous physical inter- pretation of which in the last resort requires a reference to a complete experimental arrangement. It must be remarked that all the applications of ordinary mechanics are essentially connected with the assumption of periodic orbits. It must be remembered that it is only for high values of that the theory indicates values of very nearly unity; but for such values of, the terms in question are very small, and the relative accuracy in the experimental determination not very high.
It must be remembered, the wave theory of material particles, de Broglie however, that the procedure described is limited pointed out that the statio states of an atom just to those problems, in which in applying the may be visualised as an interference effect of the quantum postulate the space-time description hase wave associated with a bound electron. It must experiments on their radiation or collision reactions, be kept in mind, however, that just in the resonance such that the interpretation of experimental facts problem mentioned we are concerned with a closed ultimately depends on the abstractions of radiation system which, acco!
It must here be remembered that even in the indeterminacy relation (3) we are dealing with an implication of the formalism which defies unambiguous expression in words suited to describe classical physical pictures. It must not be for- particles and radiation. It must not be forgotten, however, that in to the formulation of the so-called correspondence the classical theories any succeeding observation principle. It need hardly be added that any such remark or sug- gestion implies no underrating of the difficulty and delicacy of the steps to be taken by the statesmen in order to obtain an arrangement satisfactory to all con- cerned, but aim only at pointing to some aspects of the situation which might facilitate endeavours to turn the project to lasting benefit for the common cause.
It need hardly be recalled how fundamental this relation was to prove in the further development of nuclear research. It need hardly be stressed that such problems do not arise in the account of the ordinary physical and chemical properties of matter, based on the Rutherford atomic model, in the analysis of which use is only made of well-defined characteristics of the constituent particles. It need hardly be stressed that we are not concerned here with an analogy to the familiar recourse to statistics in the description of physical systems of too complicated a structure to make practicable the complete definition of their state necessary for a deterministic account.
It need in this connection hardly be recalled that just the evidence obtained by the study of artificial nuclear transformations gave a most direct test of Einstein's fundamental law regarding the equivalence of mass and energy, which was to prove an evermore important guide for researches in nuclear physics. It need, thus, hardly be stressed how great are the new possibilities which have been opened for the most purposeful applications of the properties of matter and for the refinement of the studies of the structure of organisms and the metabolic processes connected with the upholding of life. It never rains but it pours, and I have another interesting development to tell you about of which a short account should appear in Nature next week.
It now became clear that all types of nuclear transmutations within a large energy reg10n take place in two well-separated steps. It now became clear that all types of nuclear transmutations within a large energy region take place in two well-separated steps. It permits a general ap- conjugated variables in the sense of the Hamil- plication of the principle of superposition also tonian equations, do not obey the commutative in the problem of interaction, thus offering an law of multiplication, but two such quantities, g immediate connexion with the above considera- and p, have to fulfil the exchange rule tions concerning radiation and free particles.
It permits a general application of values of any set of variables may appear as indices of the principle of superposition also in the problem of the matrix elements. It seemed to the Committee that the first few lectures should be given by one or other of those who were fortunate enough to work with Rutherford in the heyday of his powers. It seems doubtful, however, if the measurements are accurate enough for such a conclusion. It seems likely that an understanding of these mesons may throw light on internal nuclear forces and problems. It seems to me that you would have to assume that the electron knows beforehand where it is going to stop.
It seems, however, possible on the present theory to obtain a simple explanation of the characteristic difference, observed by Stark, in the effect of the field on the lines of the different series of the helium spectrum. It seenmed impossible to conceive of such an atom giving a line spectrum of emission of light with so many fixed discrete frequencies. It should also be recalled, that while the relative influence of the presence of the other electrons upon the firmness of the binding will decrease with increasing charge of the nucleus, the effect of the variation in the mass of the electron with the velocity upon the firmness of the binding will increase strongly.
It should be measured, then cA/21 can be taken as a measure of the further be mentioned, that in referring to the veloc it accuracy in the determination of the velocity, where 1 of a particle as we have here done repeatedly, the purpose 66 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 67 has only been to obtain a connection with the ordinary In tracing observations back to our sensations, once spacetime description convenient in this case.
It should be mentioned that the possible importance of the angular momentum in the quantum theory was pointed out by Nicholson before the application of this theory to the spectrum of hydrogen, and that a determination of the stationary states for the hydrogen atom similar to that employed by Sommerfeld was proposed almost simultaneously by Wilson, although the latter did not succeed in giving a physical application to his results. It should be noted that even though the theory represents the principal features of the structure of the series spectra it has not yet been possible to give a detailed account of the spectrum of any element by a closer investigation of the electronic orbits which may occur in a simple field of force possessing central symmetry.
It should further be mentioned, The product of the least inaccuracies with which that in referring to the velocity of a particle as we the positional co-ordinate and the component of have here done repeatedly, the purpose has only momentum in a definite direction can be ascer- been to obtain a connexion with the ordinary tained is therefore just given by formula (2). It supplied a value for the unit electric charge hitherto known only approximately. It the apparently contrasting points of view which is true that the wide field of application of classical mark physiology and psychology.
It the symbolical quantum theory methods ascribe a par would seem, however, that here we are not simply deal- ticular phase to each stationary state the value of which ing with a measurement of the energy of the atom at a depends upon the previous history Of the atom, would given time. It thus seemed clear that the thorium emitted some substance which could be carried away in a gas stream and he gave the name 'emanation' to this unknown substance.
It was a great help in the continuation of Rutherford's own pioneer- ing work on the constitution and disintegrations of atomic nuclei as well as in the management of the great laboratory, that from the very beginning he was joined by James Chadwick from the old Manchester group, who returned from a long detention in Germany, where at the outbreak of the war he had been working in Berlin with Geiger. It was a great pleasure for the group in Copenhagen that during this visit Heisenberg agreed to take over the lectureship at our Institute after Kramers, who had accepted the chair of theoretical physics in Utrecht. It was a merry and jolly occasion.
It was a special encouragement that already in theautumn of 1920, when the Institute building was nearing com- pletion, Rutherford found time to visit us in Copenhagen. It was an essential assumption in Plancks theory that the frequency of the radiation emitted and absorbed by the oscillator is always equal to . It was assumed that in the stationary states corresponding to such values of one of the electrons in the atom moves at a distance from the nucleus large compared with the distance of the other electrons. It was even clear that, owing to the large mass of the nucleus and its small extension compared with that of the whole atom, the constitution of the electron system would depend almost exclusively on the total electric charge of the nucleus.
It was even found possible to account by the correspondence argument for the absence of certain types of transitions in other atoms, beyond those which, as pointed out by Rubinowicz, could be excluded by the conservation laws for energy and angular momentum applied to the reaction between the atom and the radiation. It was first pointed out by Haas*, in an attempt to explain the meaning and the value of Planck's constant on the basis of J. J. Thomson's atom-model, by help of the linear dimensions and frequency of an hydrogen atom. It was found that the conductivity persisted when the thoria was covered with a few sheets of filter paper.
It was found that the electrons upon colliding with the atoms were thrown back with undiminished velocity when their energy was less than that required to transfer the atom from the normal state to the next succeeding stationary state of higher energy value. It was found that the two outer components have not always equal intensities; when the spectrum is produced by positive rays, it was found that the component of highest frequency is the stronger if the rays travel against the electric field, while if it travels in the direction of the field the component of smallest frequency is the stronger ( loc.
It was further shown that the atom, as the result of such an impact, emits a radiation consisting only of the ultraviolet mercury line of wave-length 2536, and it was pointed out that if the frequency of this line is multiplied by Plancks constant, we obtain a value which, within the limit of experimental error, is equal to the energy acquired by an electron by a fall through a potential difference of 4.9 volts. It was in Gottingen, where I was invited to give a series of lectures on the state of the quantum theory of atomic constitution.
It was in fact in the dispersion theory, further developed by Kramers and Heisenberg to include new effects originating in the perturbation of the states of atomic systems produced by electromagnetic fields, that Heisenberg should find a stepping stone for the development of a formalism of quantum mechanics, from which all reference to classical pictures beyond the asymptotic correspondence was completely eliminated.
It was in fact the clarification of the paradoxes connected with the finite velocity of propagation of light and the judgment of events by observers in relative motion which first disclosed the arbitrariness contained even in the concept of simultaneity, and thereby created a freer attitude toward the question of space-time co6rdination which finds expression in the theory of relativity. It was indeed the beginning of a long corre- spondence which lasted over 25 years and which revives, every time I look into it, my memories of Rutherford's enthusiasm for the progress in the field he had opened up and the warm interest he took in the endeavours of everyone trying to contribute to it.
It was indicated that a kind of synthesis of the atomic nuclei took place in which the a-particle was added to nuclear structure and a portion emitted a period of the order of a millionth of a second later. It was known that cx-particles from different atoms of the same radioactive substance are ejected with practically the same initial velocity. It was never possible to produce these lines in pure hydrogen, but just before the theory for the hydrogen spectrum was put forward, Fowler succeeded in observing the series in question by sending a strong discharge through a mixture of hydrogen and helium.
It was not possible, however, in this way to arrive at a detailed explanation of the characteristic properties of the elements even after it had become apparent from the results of Moseley and the work of Sommerfeld and others that this simple picture ought to be extended to include orbits in the fully formed atom characterized by higher quantum numbers corresponding to previous stages in the formation of the hydrogen atom. It was only in the nineteenth century that instances became numerous, e.g. It was pointed out in paper IV.
It was possible to show that the frequency of the radiation sent out during the transition between two stationary states, the difference of the term numbers of which is small in comparison to these numbers themselves, tended to coincide in frequency with one of the harmonic components into which the electron motion could be resolved, and accordingly also with the frequency of one of the wave trams in the radiation which would be emitted according to the laws of ordinary electrodynamics. It was recognized for the first time by Mendeleev and Lothar Meyer that when the elements are arranged in an order which is practically that of their atomic weights, their chemical and physical properties show a pronounced periodicity.
It was shown how simple processes could be imagined by which the confluence of different rings of electrons could be effected without any change in the angular momentum of the electrons, if the angular momentum of each electron before the process was the same. It was shown that in a number of different cases this assumption led to results in approximate agreement with experimental facts. It was soon found that f-particles were similar but with speeds up to over 95 0 of the velocity of light and with a mass varying as speed increased in accordance with deduc- tion from the relativity theory. It was the last meeting which Einstein attended, before the political developments in Germany forced him to emigrate to the United States.
It was therefore most reassuring to find that the whole approach to the spectral problems ful- filled demand of embracing the classical physical descrip- the obvious tion in the limitwhere the action involved is sufficiently large to permit the neglect of the individual quantum. It was therefore natural to attempt to base the explanation of spectra directly on the combina- tion law. It was, however, impossible on this basis to give a closer explanation of the spectra of the elements, or even of the general type of the laws holding with great exactness for the wavelengths of lines in these spectra, which had been established by Balmer, Rydberg, and Ritz.
It was, in fact, to evade such diffi- culties that Pauli introduced the bold idea, which was to prove most fruitful for the later development, that a very penetrating radiation, consisting of particles with vanishing rest mass and spin one-half, the so-called neutrinos, were emitted in (3-decay together with the electrons. It will also be seen that an un- could change its place during the finite time of ambiguous definition of this concept is excluded illumination. It will also be shown that the theory seems to offer an explanation of the appearance of ordinary double spectral lines 1. It will appear that these considerations offer a possible simple explanation of the appearance of the Rydberg constant in the formula for the spectral series of every element.
It will appear that this spectrum can be interpreted on the assumption of three series of stationary states of the atom, corresponding to different configurations of the inner electrons; viz. It will at the same time be noted that, in case of hydrogen, this relation implies that the motion of the particles in the stationary states of the atom will not in general be simply harmonic, or in other words that the orbit of the electron will not in general be circular. It will be observed that on this assumption we obtain exactly the same relation to the ordinary theory of statistical mechanics in the limit of large ns as obtained in the case of systems of one degree of freedom.
It will be observed that we in the above way do not obtain other series of lines, generally ascribed to hydrogen ; for instance, the series first observed by Picketing* in the spectrum of the star ~ Puppis, and the set of series recently found by F o w l e r t by experiments with vacuum tubes containing a mixture of hydrogen and helium. It will be observed, however, that, while in the theories of Sommerfeld and Debye the stationary states are characterised by three conditions, only two conditions were necessary on the above considerations in order to secure the right 1 ) A. Sommerfeld, Phys. It will be remarked that it is assumed that all the spectra considered in this section are essentially connected with the displacement of a single electron.
It will be seen at once that these conditions are invariant for any slow transformation of the system for which the independency of the motions corresponding to the different coordinates is maintained. It will be seen that Ladenburgs conclusions also exhibit points of similarity with the results which we shall discuss later. It will be seen that such a viewpoint is equally removed from the extreme doctrines of mechanism and vitalism. It will be seen that the character of the motion will depend only on the s and not on the s, which latter constants serve only to fix the exact configuration of the system at a given moment, when the s are known.
It will be seen that the complexity of the Xray levels exhibits a close analogy with the explanation of the complexity of the terms of the series spectra. It will be seen that the equations (46) allow to follow the secular perturbations during a time interval sufficiently long for the external forces to produce a considerable change in the shape and position of the original orbit, if in the total variations of the orbital constants 2 , . It will be seen that these assumptions are closely analogous to those originally used by Planck about the emission of radiation in quanta, and about the relation between the frequency of an atomic resonator (of constant frequency) and its energy.
It will be seen that this assumption is equivalent to supposing that the energy of the hydrogen atom in its stationary states is not altered by the presence of the field, but that the relation (1) in case of vibrations perpendicular to the field is replaced by the relation The essential difference between these assumptions and those employed in explaining the effect of an electric field will be noticed From the analogy between the explanation of the hydrogen spectrum and that of spectral series of other elements given in the first section, we may naturally assume that similar assumptions will hold for the stationary states of other atoms. It will be seen that this assumption is most intimately connected with the hypothesis F on the stability of the configurations.
It will be seen that this is just what we should expect on the present theory if the spectra are emitted by atoms which have lost two electrons and are regaining one of them. It will be seen that this result is equivalent to the statement, that the mean value of the inner energy taken over an approximate period of the perturbed motion will be equal to the value En of the energy in the corresponding stationary state of the undisturbed system. It will be seen that this result is in approximate agreement with the calculation mentioned above if we assume that the radiation is emitted as a quantum.
It will be seen that this value agrees closely with that observed, In this connexion it may be noticed that the value calculated for the ratio in question is independent of the value of the numerical factor in the expression (21), and consequently of the detailed assumptions used in deducing this expression. It will be seen that when this state is reached the motion will again satisfy (24), but this time we will have I = h(n + m) instead of I = nh as in the original state. It will be seen, however, that the solution must be sought in an entirely different direction.
It will be seen, however, that we are here dealing with problems of just the same kind as those raised by Einstein in previous discussions, and, in an article which appeared a few months later, I tried to show that from the point of view of complementarity the apparent inconsistencies were completely removed. It will be shown that it is possible from the point of view taken to account in a simple way for the law of the line spectrum of hydrogen. It will be shown that it leads to results which seem to be in conformity with experiments on a number of different phenomena. It will by means of suitable auxiliaries such as photogragldc also be seen that an unambiguous definition of this con- plates, Wilson clouds, etc.
It will carry us much too far from our theme to mention in detail the great development of atomic science in our days, and I shall only briefly remind that, in the binding of the electrons to the nucleus of the atom and in the role they play for the joining of the atoms in molecules of chemical compounds, we have to do with typical quantum effects resisting accustomed pictorial representation. It will consequently be seen that, by fixing the stationary states of the perturbed system by means of the conditions (22), the cycles of shapes and positions which the orbit of the particle will pass through in the stationary states will be entirely different in the two cases.
It will further be observed that the problem of determining the secular perturbations by means of (46) consists in solving a set of equations of the same type as the Hamiltonian equations of motion for a system of s1 degrees of freedom. It will further be seen that the assumption, that there will be an absorption (scattering) of any radiation corresponding to a transition between two different me- chanical states, is in perfect analogy with the assmnption generally used that a free electron will have an absorbing (scattering) influence on light of any frequency.
It will moreover be seen that a state in which the electron moves in a circular orbit perpendicular to the axis of the field, and which beforehand must be expected to belong to the stationary states of the perturbed atom since this orbit will not undergo secular perturbations during a uniform establishment of the external field, will be included among the states determined by (61). It will not be necessary to concern ourselves long with the question of the constitution of the hydrogen atom. It will not be necessary, particularly here in Berlin, to consider in detail how Plancks fundamental work on temDownloaded from perature radiation has given rise to this theory, according to which the laws governing atomic processes exhibit a definite element of discontinuity.
It will not be possible here to consider further these still open questions and I must content myself by referring to the discussion in my forthcoming paper. It will now be attempted to show that the difficulties in question disappear if we consider the problems from the point of view taken in this paper. It will therefore be seen that by reversing the line of argument, Einsteins theory may be considered as a very direct support of the latter relation. It will thus be assumed that the electrons, before the binding by the nucleus, were at a great distance apart from the latter and possessed no sensible velocities, and also that during the binding a homogeneous radiation is emitted.
It will thus be seen that the motion may be considered as a superposition of a number of circular harmonic vibrations, for which the direction of rotation is the same as, or the opposite of, that of the revolution of the electron round the nucleus, according as the expression 1 + 2 is positive or negative respectively. It will thus be seen that, for a periodic system of several degrees of freedom, condition (24) forms a simple generalisation of condition (10). It would be interesting perhaps to speculate on the subject-matter of some future Rutherford memorial lecture in South Africa when the nature of the forces holding together the atomic nucleus has been unravelled and we have advanced one stage further in our understanding of these subuniverses.
It would carry us too far from the subject of this address to enter here fur ther upon the wonderful new field of research opened by the study of nuclear transmutations, which will be one of the main subjects of discussion among physicists at this meeting. It would duration of such a passage would be very small seem, however, that here we are not simply dealing as compared with the natural periods of the atom, with a measurement of the energy of the atom at and it seemed impossible to reconcile the principle a given time.
It would in particular not be out of place in this connection to warn against a misunderstanding likely to arise when one tries to express the content of Heisenlerg's well known indeterminacy relations-which play as important a role in the judgment of the consistency of the essentially statistical mode of description of quantum mechanics as the Lorentz transformation does in solving the paradoxes which appear in the theory of relativity-by such a statement as: "the position and momentum of a particle cannot simultaneously be measured with arbitrary accuracy." It would not even be possible to understand how hydrogen could emit a spectrum consisting of sharp lines; for since varies with W , the frequency of the emitted radiation would vary continuously during the emission.
It would seem, however, that all the facts observed obtain a simple interpretation on the basis of the general considerations about the relation between the quantum theory of line spectra and the ordinary theory of radiation discussed in Part I.
It would therefore be possible to escape from the difficulty, mentioned above, as regards the absence of paramagnetism, by assuming that only the energy in the so called normal state of an atomic system (i. e. the stationary state of the system which possesses Downloaded from https://www.holybooks.com 161 that the superposed rotation under consideration will not affect the mutual potential energy of the particles, while, with neglect of small quantities proportional to H 2 , it will produce a change in the kinetic energy equal to 2P vH , where P represents the total angular momentum of the system round the axis, taken in the same direction as that of the superposed rotation.
It would, however, appear that in the sodium atom the major axis and the parameter of the stationary states corresponding to each pair of spectral terms are given approximately by formulae (17) and (25). It would, however, seem most fortunate that the expectations for a future harmonious international co-operation which have found unanimous expression from all sides within the united nations, so remarkably correspond to the unique opportunities which, unknown to the public, have been created by the advancement of science. It would, indeed, seem inno way excluded that an analysis on some such lines of the conditions for the consistency of a theory of atomic phenomena would lead to new argumentsfor the fixation of the actual numerical value of all these constants.
Itis, however, only with considerable hesitation that this manuscript is being published. J E 2 "had their origin in the nucleus. J shall therefore here mention only a few of my 64 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE remembrances from those years, when I often had occasion to follow the work in the Cavendish Laboratory and learned in talks with Rutherford about the trend of his views and the problems occupying him and his collaborators. J. J. Thomson had already shown that cathode rays were corpuscles or electrons with a mass 1/ 1840 of that of hydrogen and always the same whatever their origin.
Just as for a system of one degree of freedom we shall see, however, that in the limit where the motions in neighbouring stationary states differ very little from each other, there exists a close relation between the spectrum calculated on the quantum theory and that to be expected on ordinary electrodynamics. Just as in the case of radia- _ propagation of waves is depicted through rays . Just as in the case of radiation, instruments, especially from Rayleigh's investiga- owever, it is impossible to define momentum and tion of the resolving power of spectral apparatus energy for an electron without considering a finite express the condition that the wave-trains space-time region.
Just as in the case of systems of one degree of freedom, however, we are naturally led from the above considerations to assume that, also for values of the ns which are not large, there must exist an intimate connection between the probability of a given transition and the values of the corresponding Fourier coefficient in the expressions for the displacements of the particles in the two stationary states. Just as in the case of the 3rd and 7th electrons we may therefore expect to meet a new type of orbit for the 11th electron in the atom, and the orbits which present themselves this time are the 31 orbits.
Just as in the case of the Stark effect, however, the system is no more degenerate as soon as the relativity modifications are taken into account, in which case a separation of variables will still be possible but only in polar coordinates. Just as in the case of the determination of position the radiation can be measured the extent of the wavetrain t1me of the process of observation for the determinat ion in the direction of propagation is essential. Just as in the case of the family of the iron metals in the fourth period, the proposed explanation of the occurrence of the family of rare earths in the sixth period is supported in an interesting manner by an investigation of the magnetic properties of these elements.
Just as in the question discussed above of the mutually exclusive character of any unambiguous use in quantum theory of the concepts of position and momentum, it is in the last resort this circumstance which entails the complementary relationship between any detailed time account of atomic phenomena on the one hand and the unclassical features of intrinsic stability of atoms, disclosed by the study of energy transfers in atomic reactions on the other hand. Just as in the within a region where the quantum-mechanical question discussed above of the mutually exclu- description of the process concerned is effectively sive character of any unambiguous use in quan- equivalent with the classical description.
Just as the latter process generally will give rise to emission or absorption of radiation and cannot be described by means of ordinary mechanics, we must expect that the motion of a periodic system of several degrees of freedom under the establishment of the external field cannot be determined by ordinary mechanics, but that the field will give rise to effects of the same kind as those which occur during a transition between two stationary states accompanied by emission or absorption of radiation.
Just as the recognition of general relativity, which has lent such unity to our picture of the universe, has strikingly illuminated the extent to which the presentation of any event must depend on the frame of reference chosen, so the elucidation of the apparent paradoxes which were encountered in the exploration of the structure of atoms disclosed further presumptions for the interpretation of observations and reminded us of fundamental aspects as regards analysis and synthesis of experience.
Just as the relativity theory atomic phenomena will involve an interaction with the has taught us that the convenience of distinguishing agency of observation not to be neglectedJAccordingly, sharplybetween space and time rests solely on the small- w. an 1ndependent reaIity in the ordinary physical sense ness of the velocities ordinarily met with compared to can neither be ascribed to the phenomena nor to the the velocity of light, we learn from the quantum theory agpncies of observationjAfter all, the concept of observa- that the appropriateness of our usual causal space-time tion is in so far arbitrary as it depends upon which obiects description depends entirely upon the small value of the are included in the system to be observed.
Just as the simplicity of the laws that govern the motions of the solar system is intimately connected with the circumstance that the dimensions of the moving bodies are small in relation to the orbits, so the corresponding relations in atomic structure provide us with an explanation of an essential feature of natural phenomena in so far as these depend on the properties of the elements. Just as the transfer of momentum to the separate parts of the apparatus, the knowledge of the relative positions of which is required for the description of the phenomenon, has been seen to be entirely uncontrollable, so the exchange of energy between the object and the various bodies, whose relative motion must be known for the intended use of the apparatus, will defy any closer analysis.
Just as the trary this description, as appears from the pre- transfer of momentum to the separate parts of QUANTUM MECHANICS AND PHYSICAL REALITY 701 the apparatus,the knowledge of the relative In accordance with this situation there can be no positions of which is required for the description question of any unambiguous interpretation of of the phenomenon,has been seen to be entirely the symbols of quantum mechanics other than uncontrollable, so the exchange of energy be- that embodied in the well-known rules which tween the object and the various bodies, whose allow to predict the results to be obtained by a relative motion must be known for the intended given experimental arrangement described in a use of the apparatus, will defy any closer totally classical way, and which have found their analysis.
Just as these concepts are com- we meet in this principle, so important for the plementary to the space-time description, the problem of atomic structure as well as for the appropriateness of the ordinary four-dimensional recent development of statistical theories, with description as well as its symbolical utilisation in one among several possibilities, each of which the quantum theory would, as Klein emphasises, fulfils the correspondence requirement. Just as we have assumed that each emission of radiation is due to a transition from a stationary state of higher to one of lower energy, so also we must assume absorption of radiation by the atom to be due to a transition in the opposite direction.
Just in helping to bring out this point so clearly, Einstein's concern had therefore again been a most welcome incitement to explore the essential aspects of the situation. Just in such respects helpful support may perhaps be afforded by the world-wide scientific collaboration which for years has embodied such bright promises for common human striving. Just in this connection it appeared to me to be of interest to point out that also in other regions of human knowledge we meet apparent contradictions which might seem to be avoidable only from the point of view of complementarity.
Just in this last re- Like the above simple case of the choice spect any comparison between quantum mechan- between the experimental procedures suited for ics and ordinary statistical mechanics,however the prediction of the position or the momentum useful it may be for the formal presentation of of a single particle which has passed through a the theory,is essentially irrelevant. Just in this last respect any comparison between quantum mechanics and ordinary statistical mechanics, however useful it may be for the formal presentation of the theory, is essentially irrelevant. Just in this respect new light was to come from the analogy between the motion of material particles and the wave propagation of photons, to which de Broglie had referred already in 1924.
Just represented by just the so-called group-velocity. Just the fact that the paradoxes of atomic physics could be solved not by a one sided attitude towards the old problem of "determinism or indeterminism," but only by examining the possibilities of observation and definition, should rather stimulate us to a renewed examination of the position in this respect in the biological and psychological problems at issue. Just the requirement that it be possible to communicate experimental findings in an unambiguous manner implies that the experimental arrangement and the results of the observation must be expressed in the common language adapted to our orientation in the environment.
Just these coincid- the consistency of which can be judged only by ences will not be affected by any differences which weighing the possibilities of definition and obser- the space-time co-ordination of different observers vation. Just these coincidences Will not be affected where we are wandering on new paths and have to rely by any differences which the space-time co-ordination 54 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 55 of different observers otherwise may exhibit. Just this cir- cumstance, however, excludes any separate account of the interaction between the measuring instruments and the atomic objects under in- vestigation.
Just this circumstance offers us, however, a possibility of obtaining information about the configurations of the electrons in the interior of the atoms from the Xray spectra. Just this circumstance, together with the relativistic invariance of the uncertainty relations of quantum mechanics, ensures the compatibility between the argumentation outlined in the present article and all exigencies of relativity theory.
Just this situa- which on the classical view would be ascribed to the tion brings out most strikingly the complementary cha- same state of the atom, will, according to the quantum racter of the descr1pt1on of atomic phenomena whiCh postulate, correspond to separate transition processes, appears as an 1nev1table consequence of the contrast be- between which the excited atom has a choice. Just this situation brings space-time extension of the associated wave-fields.
Just with respect to the observational problem, this last question had previously been the subject of an address to the International Congress on Light Therapy held in Copenhagen in 1932, where it was incidentally pointed out that even the psycho-physical parallelism as envisaged by Leibniz and Spinoza has obtained a wider scope through the development of atomic physics, which forces us to an attitude towards the problem of explanation recalling ancient wisdom, that when searching for harmony in life one must never forget that in the drama of existence we are ourselves both actors and spectators. K= The correspondence principle. Kay helps me and is now an expert counter. Kemble has not, however, investigated this motion further.
Kh If we now substitute 2 for W in formula (6), we obtain the n following expression for the frequency and the major axis in the nth stationary state: r n2 e2 1 2h3 K 3 , 2a = . Kirchhoffs considerations were only capable of predicting the existence of a law of temperature radiation, and many physicists have subsequently attempted to find a more thorough explanation of the experimental results. Kirchhoffs result has been confirmed by experiment, and the amount of energy and its distribution among the various wave lengths and the manner in which it depends on the temperature are now fairly well known from a great amount of experimental work; or, as it is usually expressed, we have a fairly accurate experimental knowledge of the laws of temperature radiation.
Kossel now assumes that the radiation results from the removal of an electron from ring 1, and makes the interesting suggestion that the line denoted by Moseley as corresponds to the radiation emitted when an electron jumps from ring 2 to ring 1, and that the line, corresponds to a jump from ring 3 to ring 1. Kossels work was later continued in an interesting manner by Ladenburg with special reference to the grouping of the electrons in atoms of elements belonging to the later periods of the periodic table. Kven if the object is illuminated by hence is 2hlj/mcA.
LI, p. 261 (1916)) who, by an examination of the volumes of the different extensions in the phase space which might be considered as belonging to the different stationary states of the hydrogen atom, has arrived at an expression for the a-priori probability of these states which differs from the above. LIGHT AND LIFE REVISITED 27 organization of a more specific kind than that exhibited by the parts of any machine we are able to construct. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from.
LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the Right of Replacement or Refund described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project GutenbergTM trademark, and any other party distributing a Project GutenbergTM electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. LVI, p. 577 (1918)) and by G. Liebert (ibid. Ladenburg, on the other hand, assumes that for some reason or other an intermediate layer is developed between the inner electronic configuration in the atom appearing already in argon, and the external group of valency electrons.
Lande has pursued this question still further, and as will be mentioned later has proposed a number of different spatial atomic models in which the electrons in each separate group of the atom at each moment form configurations possessing regular polyhedral symmetry. Langmuir in order to account for the difference between the fourth period and the preceding periods simply assumed that the atom, in addition to the layers of cells containing 8 electrons each, possesses an outer layer of cells with room for 18 electrons which is completely filled for the first time in the case of krypton.
Langmuir, who has attempted to develop Lewis conceptions still further and to account not only for the occurrence of the first octaves, but also for the longer periods of the periodic system, supposes therefore the structure of the atoms to be governed by forces whose nature is unknown to us. Langmuirs work has attracted much attention among chemists, since it has to some extent thrown light on the conceptions with which empirical chemical science is concerned. Lastly the inner system is in general capable of a permanent existence only in its normal state. Later Geiger perfected the instrument so that it would also count fl-particles. Later experiments, especially by Davis and Goucher, have settled this point.
Later more complicated types of magnetic effect on spectral lines have been observed. Later special experiments will be made to test the nature of the particles but from the brightness of the scintillations and the trail in a Wilson chamber it seems probable they are a-particles. Later the reaction was worked out as follows 14N + !He -* 17O + 'H + energy. Later, this viewpoint was developed chiefly by Kossel (1916), who, moreover, has connected such a grouping with the laws that investigations of X-ray spectra have brought to light. Laws of temperature radiation.
Leaning directly on Einstein's treatment of the photo-effect, it was in fact possible to interpret the combination law as evidence of elementary processes in which the atom under emission or absorption of monochromatic radiation was transferred from one to another of the so-called stationary states of the atom. Leaning on correspondence argu- ments, Kramers showed, however, how the dispersion effect could be brought in direct connection with the laws formulated by Einstein for the probabilities of spontaneous and induced individual radiative processes.
Less than two years after Rutherford's death in 1937, a new and dramatic development was initiated by the discovery of the fission processes of the heaviest elements by his old friend and collaborator in Montreal, Otto Hahn, working in Berlin with Fritz Strassmann. Let be the frequency of revolution, the mean value of the kinetic energy during a revolution, and the mean value of the sum of the kinetic energy and the potential energy of the particle relative to the stationary field. Let be the frequency of revolution, the mean value of the kinetic energy during the revolution, and the mean value of the sum of the kinetic energy and the potential energy of the particle relative to the stationary field.
Let the configuration and motion of a mechanical system be characterised by s independent variables q1 , . Let then the system undergo a slow continuous transformation during which the field of force acting on the electron remains central, but by which the law of attraction is slowly varied until the force is directly proportional to the distance apart. Let this moment be t = and let the potential of the external field at t 0 be given by , expressed as a function of the qs. Let us assume for the sake of brevity that the mass of the nucleus is infinitely large in proportion to that of the electron, and that the velocity of the electron is very small in comparison with that of light.
Let us assume that the original system allows of separation of variables in a certain set of coordinates q1 , . Let us assume that the ratio between the total amount of of Atoms and Molecules. Let us assume that the spectra under consideration, like the spectrum of hydrogen, are emitted by a neutral system, and that they are produced by the binding of an electron previously removed from the system. Let us assume that the spectrum in question corresponds to the radiation emitted during the bindi,g of an electron ; and let us further assume that the system including the electron considered is neutral.
Let us assume that, within the interval 0 < t < where denotes a quantity of the same order as /, the intensity of the external field increases uniformly from zero to the value corresponding to the potential . Let us at first assume that there is no energy radiation. Let us begin with the simple case of a particle passing through a slit in a diaphragm, which may form part of some more or less complicated experimental arrangement. Let us consider a ring consisting of n electrons rotating round a nucleus of charge E, the electrons being arranged at equal angular intervals around the circumference of a circle of radius a.
Let us consider a state of the system in which the electron is free, i. e. in which the electron possesses kinetic energy sufficient to remove to infinite distances from the nucleus. Let us consider an electrodynamic system and inquire into the nature of the radiation which would result from the motion of the system on the basis of the ordinary conceptions. Let us consider an enclosure surrounded by bodies which are in temperature equilibrium. Let us consider the following question: What changes in the state of the atom can be produced by the absorption of radiation, and which processes of emission can be initiated by such changes?
Let us consider the radiation emitted during the passing of the system between two stationary states A1 and A~ corre- sponding to values for T equal to ~'1 and v~, T~ > ~'2. Let us continue with the elucidation of the calculations, and in the expression for 2a introduce the value of W which corresponds to the nth stationary state. Let us denote a plane elementary wave by in the group is given in the most favourable case by the condition A cos 27r (vt xafiyayza,+8), AtAv= Aanm= AyAa,= AzAaz= I, where A and 3 are constants determining respectively the amplitude and the phase. Let us denote this ratio by and let, as above, represent a small constant of the same order as the ratio between the external forces due to the first field and the internal forces of the system.
Let us first assume that, corresponding to usual experiments on the remarkable phenomena of electron diffraction, the diaphragm, like the other parts of the apparatus, say a second diaphragm . Let us first consider the effect of an electric field on the hydrogen spectrum. Let us now assume that a hydrogen atom simply consists of an electron revolving around a nucleus of equal and opposite charge, and of a mass which is very large in comparison with that of the electron. Let us now assume that for a certain series of stationary states is different from zero.
Let us now assume that in this way the orbit of the electron is transformed into a circular one, so that, returning to plane polar coordinates, we have n1 = 0 and n2 = n + m, and let then by a slow transformation the law of attraction be varied until again it is that of the inverse square. Let us now assume that the system performs a periodic motion with the period , and let us form the expression Z X s I= pk qk dt, (5) 0 1 which is easily seen to be independent of the special choice of coordinates q1 , . Let us now assume that, during the binding of the electron, a homogeneous radiation is emitted of a frequency v, equal to half the frequency of revolution of the electron in its final gee t: inst., M. Planck, Ann.
Let us now consider somewhat more closely this relation between the spectra one would expect on the basis of the quantum theory, and on the ordinary theory of radiation. Let us now proceed to consider the spectrum of a conditionally periodic system, calculated from the values of the energy in the stationary states by means of relation (1). Let us now try to find a conn nection between this and the model of the hydrogen atom. Let us now try to overcome these difficulties by applying Plancks theory to the problem. Let us now turn our attention once more to the problem of the series spectra of elements of higher atomic number. Let us now, however, take the effect of ~ the energy radia- tion into account, calculated in the ordinary way from the acceleration of the electron.
Let us suppose that it is not due to hydrogen, but to some other simple system consisting of a single electron revolving about a nucleus with an electrical charge N e. The expression for becomes then 2 W3 2 = 2 2 4 . Life will always be a wonder, but what changes is the balance between the feeling of wonder and the courage to try to understand.
Like the above simple case of the choice between the experimental procedures suited for the prediction of the position or the momentum of a single particle which has passed through a slit in a diaphragm, we are, in the "freedom of choice" offered by the last arrangement, just concerned with a discrimination between digerenk experimental procedures which allow of the unam biguous use of complementary classical concepts In fact to measure the position of one of the particles can mean nothing else than to establish a correlation between its behavior and some As will be seen, this description, apart from a trivial normalizing factor, corresponds exactly to the transformation of variables described in the preceding footnote if (q&p&), (q2p&) represent the positional coordinates and components of momenta of the two particles and if 8= m. /4.
Like the procedure in my paper, Gehrcke does not attempt to give a mechanical explanation of Plancks relation between the frequency of the radiation and the amount of energy emitted; but he does also not try to give a mechanical interpretation of the dynamical equilibrium of the atom in its possible stationary states, or to obtain a connexion to ordinary mechanics in the region of slow vibrations. Like what we assumed for the latter configuration we shall expect that the configuration of the 31 orbits occurring for the first time in silicon possesses such a completion, that the addition of a further electron in a 31 orbit to the atom of the following elements is impossible, and that the 15th electron in the elements of higher atomic number will be bound in a new type of orbit.
Likeis of decisive importance. Likewise the endeavours, sound in their root, to apply the growing knowledge of typ ically chemical transformations of matter to physiological processes, which found so enthusiastic an exponent in Sylvius, rapidly led, by exaggerations of superficial resemblances of digestion and fermentation with the simplest inorganic reactions and their rash application to medical purposes, to an opposition which has found its expression in the labelling of such premature endeavours as 'iatro-chemistry'. Likewise we deplore the illness that has prevented the presence of Max Born among us.
Likewise, it is to be regarded as quite accidental that Galileo was led to the recognition of the fundamen tal laws of dynamics by observing the pendulum motion of a chandelier in the beautiful cathedral of Pisa, and not by looking at a child in a swing. Likewise, real cooperation between nations on problems of common concern presupposes free access to all information of importance for their relations. Likewise, the background for all deeper religious attitude is the more or less intuitive recognition of the complementary relation between situations where such words as love or justice can be unambiguously applied. Lise Meitner and Frisch in Bohr's laboratory in Denmark, as refugees from Nazi Germany, were the first to give the explanation, i.e.
Looking apart from the effect of the relativity modifications, and choosing for q1 , q2 , and q3 the length of the radius vector from the nucleus to the electron, the angle between this radius vector and the axis of the system, and the angle which the plane through the electron and this axis makes with a fixed plane through the axis respectively, they obtain the following expression for the total energy:1 ) ehn3 2 2 N 2 e4 m H, E= 2 h (n1 + n2 + n3 )2 4mc (81) where n1 , n2 , and n3 are the integers which appear as factors to Plancks constant on the right side of the conditions (22).
Looking back on those days, I find it difficult to convey with sufficient vividness the fervent hopes that the progress of science might initiate a new era of harmonious cooperation between nations, and the anxieties lest any opportunity to promote such a development be forfeited. Looking back on those days, indeed interesting to recall that various progress, which it is should be of great importance for the subsequent development, was already initiated. Lorentz assumed that the radiation which we observe in a spectral line is sent out from an electron executing simple harmonic vibrations about a position of equilibrium, in precisely the same manner as the electromagnetic waves in radiotelegraphy are sent out by the electric oscillations in the antenna.
Lothar Meyer himself directed attention to the characteristic periodic change exhibited by the ratio of the atomic weight to the density, the so-called atomic volume, of the elements in the natural system. MATHEMATICS AND NATURAL PHILOSOPHY. MEASUREMENTS IN THE QUANTUM THEORY components before and after the process. Madame Curie discovered in 1898 that thorium showed similar properties and she coined the word 'radioactivity'. Man is primarily the thinking animal, so that the history of his thought and speculation must be the most important part of his whole history. Many an evening too was passed at his house and most of the time of course we talked shop, sometimes a mixed joy for the hospitable Mrs Rutherford.'
Many elements of the fourth period, on the contrary, exhibit paramagnetic properties and characteristic colours even in dissociated aqueous solutions. Many obstacles had to be overcome before this goal was reached, and time and again decisive progress was achieved by some of the youngest among us. Many reasons, indeed, would seem to justify the con- viction that an ~pproach with the object of establishing common seeurity from ominous menaces without exclud- ing any nation from participating in the promising in- dustrial developnlent which the accomplishment of the project entails will be welcomed, and be responded with a loyal co-operation on the enforcement of the necessary far reaching control measures.
Many small donations ($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the IRS. Many workers were attracted to his laboratory to study these and allied problems relating to the radiations themselves and workers in many foreign laboratories freely corresponded with him, trusting him implicitly to safe- guard priorities of discovery. Martha and her mother had moved to the more peaceful Nelson district from New Plymouth, where they first settled, because of the Maori wars in Taranaki, and mother and daughter in turn occupied the position of teacher in the small local primary school.
Mathematics is therefore not to be regarded as a special branch of knowledge based on the accumulation of experience, but rather as a refinement of general language, supplementing it with appropriate tools to represent relations for which ordinary verbal ex- pression is imprecise or too cumbersome. Maxwell's theory has not only shown itself able to account for the already known electric and magnetic phenomena in all their details, but has also celebrated its greatest triumph in the prediction of the electromagnetic waves which were discovered by Hertz, and are now so extensively used in wireless telegraphy. May we not hope to influence the public in this direction?
Meanwhile, a new field of physics is exciting great interest, that relating to a study of a new series of still smaller particles than neutrons, protons or a-particles and which are produced when protons and neutrons, etc. Meanwhile, however, a way to progress was sought in the study of symmetry relations, and has since been brought to the fore by the rapid succes- sion of discoveries of a manifold of particles exhibiting a behaviour so unexpected that it was even characterized by various degrees of "strangeness". Meanwhile, the discussion of the epistemological problems in atomic physics attracted as much attention as ever and, in commenting on Einstein's views as regards the incompleteness of the quantum-mechanical mode of description, I entered more directly on questions of terminology.
More cile the principle of conservation of energy with the over, the conception of a stationary state inyolves, strictly assumption of the stability of stationary states. More- over, the fact that in a Keplerian orbit, in contrast to a simple harmonic oscillation, there appears not only the frequency of revolution but also higher harmonics, offered the possibility of tracing a classical analogy as regards the unrestricted combination of the terms in the hydrogen spectrum.
Moreover a closer comparison of the helium spectrum under consideration with the hydrogen spectrum has shown that the value of the constant K in the former spectrum was not exactly four times as large as that in the latter, but that the ratio between these constants within the limit of experimental errors agreed with the value to be expected from (40), when regard is taken to the different masses of the nuclei of the atoms of hydrogen and helium corresponding to the different atomic weights of these elements.1 ) 1 ) For the literature on this subject the reader is referred to the Introducing the expression for K given by (40) in the formul (37) and (38), we find for the values of W , and 2 in the stationary states 1 2 2 N 2 e4 M m , n2 h2 (M + m) 1 4 2 N 2 e4 M m h2 (M + m) n = 3 3 , 2n = n2 2 2 .
Moreover it can be proved that the difference in the total energy of two neighbouring states of the perturbed atom will again be given by the expression (66).1 ) The general considerations in 2 will therefore apply without alterations to the problem of the intensity and polarisation of the components into which the hydrogen lines are split up in the presence of small external forces, also if these forces are entirely or partly of magnetic origin.
Moreover it follows from the above, that if we consider a hydrogen atom exposed to an electric field of axial symmetry and imagine that an external magnetic field, which possesses symmetry round the same axis, is gradually established, each component which appears in the presence of the first field only will split up into two components, in such a way that each component polarised parallel to the axis will split up into two components of the same polarisation, while each component polarised perpendicular to the axis, and which originally showed no polarisation when viewed in a direction parallel to the axis, will split up into two components showing circular polarisations in opposite directions.
Moreover it may be shown that in these equations the quantity 1 may be considered as constant, just as in the equations which hold for a constant perturbing field. Moreover the equations of motion of the undisturbed system may be solved by means of separation of variables in polar coordinates, as well as in any set of rectangular coordinates. Moreover the theory was supported in the most striking way by Paschens1 ) recent investigation of the fine structure of the lines of the analogous helium spectrum, the frequencies of which are represented approximately by formula (35), if in the expression for K, given by (40), we put N = 2.
Moreover, Cockcroft described how closely the measurements of the variations of the cross-section for the process with proton velocity confirmed the predictions of wave mechanics, to which Gamow was led in connection with the theory of spontaneous oc-decay developed by Jbdmself and others. Moreover, Darwin 44 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE and Moseley were then intensely occupied with refined theoretical and experimental investigations on the diffraction of X-raysin crystals.
Moreover, Ellis' demonstration of the continuous spectral distribu- tion of the electrons directly emitted from the nucleus raised a puzzling question about energy conservation, which was eventually answered by Pauli's bold hypothesis of the simultaneous emission of a neutrino, affording the basis for Fermi's ingenious theory of |3-decay. Moreover, Millikan reported about the continuation of his systematic investigations on the photo-electric effect, which, as is well known, led to such improvement in the accuracy of the empirical determination of Planck's constant.
Moreover, a comparison of the binding energy in this state with that of an electron moving in a Keplerian orbit around the nucleus yielded orbital dimensions of the same order as the atomic sizes derived from the properties of gases. Moreover, a completeness of description like that aimed at in classical physics is provided by the possibility of taking every conceivable experimental arrangement into account.
Moreover, although the process of radiation cannot be described on the basis of the ordinary theory of electrodynamics, according to which the nature of the radiation emitted by an atom is directly related to the harmonic components occurring in the motion of the system, there is found, nevertheless, to exist a farreaching correspondence between the various types of possible transitions between the stationary states on the one hand and the various harmonic components of the motion on the other hand.
Moreover, as regards the problem of the electromagnetic field self-energy of charged nieions obeying Bose statistics which,in first approximation,should be given by a formula of the type (3), an effective breakdown of the electromagnetic field concepts at rwr0 leads to a contribution of the order of magnitude of a@, since the meson mass, p, is comparablewith u-lrn. Moreover, evidence obtained under different conditions and rejecting comprehension in a single picture must, notwithstanding any apparent contrast, be regarded as complementary in the sense that together they exhaust all well-defined information about the atomic object. Moreover, evidence on the spins of the nuclei involved in the process seemed contradictory to the con- servation of angular momentum.
Moreover, it is simply seen from de Broglie's relation between momentum and wave-length that the uncertajnty AP of the momentum of the particle in this direction is correlated to hg by means of Heisenberg' s general principle such values to both Q and P2. Moreover, it is simply seen physics. Moreover, it provides an immediate understanding not only of the origin of natural radioactivity, in which we witness an explosion of the nucleus itself, but also of the possibility, subsequently discovered by Rutherford, of inducing transmutation of elements by bombardment with high-speed heavy particles which, in colliding with the nuclei, may cause their disintegration.
Moreover, it would apparently also be possible, by weighing the whole box before and after this event, to measure the energy of the photon with any accuracy wanted, in definite contradiction to the reciprocal indeterminacy of time and energy quantities in quantum mechanics. Moreover, on ordinary electrodynamics the harmonic vibrator will, in addition to the above mentioned independent emission, in the presence of a radiation of frequency in the surrounding space, and dependent on the accidental phasedifference between this radiation and the vibrator, emit or absorb radiation-energy. Moreover, process of observation, the interaction between the conception of a stationary state involves, the particles, thus regarding them as free.
Moreover, seem to depend essentially on the circumstance the difficulty of satisfying the relativity require- that in this description electricity always appears ment in quantum theory appears in a particularly in well-defined units, the conjugated dimen- striking light in connexion with the problem of sion being as a consequence not open to observa- the g:]zg;netig elect;;m. Indeed, it seemed not tion. Moreover, similar considerations of the proton wave function of the rotating hydrogen molecule led to the assignment of a spin to the proton and thereby to an understanding of the separation between ortho and para states, which, as shown by Dennison, supplied an explanation of the hitherto mysterious anomalies in the specific heat of hydrogen gas at low temperature.
Moreover, since of physics to the problems of biology. Moreover, since the period of the undisturbed motion depends on 1 only, it follows that the period of the osculating orbit will remain constant during the perturbations, with neglect of small quantities of the same order as . Moreover, speaking in such a way is just suited to emphasise that the appropriate physical interpretation of the symbolic quantum-mechanical formalism amounts only to predictions, of determinate or statistical character, pertaining to individual phenomena appearing under conditions defined by classical physical concepts.
Moreover, the circumstance that all such observations involve processes of essentially irreversible character lends to each phenomenon just that inherent feature of com pletion which is demanded for its well-defined inter pretation within the framework of quantum mechanics. Moreover, the effect of magnetic and electric fields on the hydrogen spectrum was treated by Sommerfeld and Epstein, who, by a masterly application of the methods for quantization of multiperiodic systems, were able, in complete accordance with observations, to derive the spectral terms by the combination of which the resolution of the hydrogen lines appears.
Moreover, the impossibility of combining phenomena observed under different experimental arrangements into a single classical picture implies that such apparently contradictory phenomena must be regarded as complementary in the sense that, taken together, they exhaust all well-defined knowledge about the atomic objects. Moreover, the promises and dangers involved in the technical advances have now most forcibly stressed the need for decisive steps towards openness as a primary condition for the progress and protection of civilization.
Moreover, the very novelty of the situation should offer a unique opportunity of appealing to an unprejudiced attitude, and it would even appear that an understanding about this vital matter might contribute most favourably towards the settlement of other problems where history and traditions have fostered divergent viewpoints. Moreover, this development has established, in increasing measure, close contact between many domains of science in which natural phenomena have been approached from different starting points and attacked by different methods.
Moreover, we may expect the presence of a weak continuous spectrum, extending as a continuous back ground over the whole region of frequencies, which will correspond to transitions between two different states in both of which the electron is free. Moreover, when dealing with the constitution of atoms with more than one electron, or collisions between atoms and free electric particles, the state functions are not represented in ordinary space but in a configuration space of as many dimensions as there are degrees of freedom in the total system. Moreover, words like thoughts and sentiments refer to mutually exclusive experiences and have therefore since the origin of human language been used in a typically complementary manner.
Moseley found that the frequency of the strongest lines in these spectra varied in a remarkably simple way with the atomic number of the corresponding element. Moseley found that these spectra varied in an extremely simple manner from one element to the next in the periodic system. Moseley pointed out the analogy between the formula (14) and the formula (3) in section 2, and remarked that the constant was equal to the last factor in this formula, if weput and . Most on these advances were in the course of appropriately, detailed reports the conference given by Martin Knudsen and Jean Perrin. Most people start at our website which has the main PG search facility: www.gutenberg.org .
Mr Marsden,' he replied, 'When I want to know about a subject I put myself down to lecture on it, then I have to study it'-I feel the same regarding the subject of the factors which contribute to greatness and genius. Mrs Rutherford had at that time a governess to assist with the younger children and the latter has recorded 'Ernest never needed to study; having read a school book once he knew it. My association with the Bmerican-British atomic energy project during the war gave me the oppor- tunity of submitting to the governments concerned views regarding the hopes and the dangers #hieh the accomplishment of the project might imply as to the mutual relations between nations.
My dear Bohr, I was very glad to hear about you all from Fowler when he returned to Cambridge and to know what an excellent meeting of old friends you had. My father felt that, in this little article, he had succeeded in formulating some of the essential points more clearly and concisely than on earlier occasions. My letters to Rutherford in the autumn of 1912 concerned the con- tinued endeavours to trace the role of the quantum of action for the electronic constitution of the Rutherford atom, including problems of molecular bindings and radiative and magnetic effects. My line is to stick to palpable things and walk along the broad highway of common sense; there- fore my "I"s never get tangled up.
My main purpose in repeating these simple, and in substance well-known considerations, is to emphasize that in the phenomena concerned we are not dealing with an incomplete description characterized by the arbitrary picking out of different elements of physical reality at the cost of sacrifying other such elements, but with a rational discrimination between essentially different experimental arrangements and procedures which are suited either for an unambiguous use of the idea of space location, or for a legitimate application of the conservation theorem of momentum. My main purpose will therefore be to consider the fitness which the configurations of the electrons in the various atoms offer for the formation of ions.
My own views at that time, as expressed in a lecture at a meeting of the Danish Physical Society in October, 1913, were that just the radical departure from the accustomed demands on physical explanation involved in the quantum postulate should of itself leave sufficient scope for the possibility of achieving in due course the incorporation of the new assumptions in a logically consistent scheme. My views took more definite shape in conversations with Hevesy about the wonderful adventure of those Montreal and Manchester years, in which Rutherford and his collaborators, after the discoveries of Becquerel and Madame Curie, had built up the science of radio- activityby progressively disentangling the succession and intercon- nections of radioactive disintegrations.
N em Repeating the same calculations as before only in the inverse order we find, that this system will emit a line spectrum given by the expression ! N order to explain the results of experiments on scattering I of a rays by matter Prof. Rutherford has given a theory of the structure of' atoms. N. BOHR C OPENHA GEN February 1934. N. Bohr, Atomic Physics and Human Knowledge, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1958. N. Bohr, Atomic Theory and Description of Nature, I bined system definite numerical values may not be as- (Cambridge, 1934).
N. Bou, Institute for Theoretical Physics, University, Copenhagen (Received July 13, 1935) It is shown that a certain criterion of physical reality formulated in a recent article with the above title by A. Einstein, B. Podolsky and N. Rosen contains an essential ambiguity when it is applied to quantum phenomena.
NIELS H. D. BOHR Professor of Theoretical Physics, University of Copenhagen (Read October 21, 1946, in Philadelphia in the Symposium of the National Academy of Sciences on Present Trends and International Implications of Science) After expressing on behalf of the Danish delegates gratitude towards the American Philosophical Society and the National Academy of Sciences for the generous invitation to participate in this international gathering devoted to the prospects of cooperation in science, which offers such great opportunities not only for advancement of knowledge but also for promotion of understanding between peoples, the speaker opened the discussions of the special problems created by the recent development of atomic physics with some general remarks the essence of which is given in the following abstract.
Naturally, to trace in every direction the consequences of the dis- covery of the atomic nucleus was the centre of interest of the whole Manchester group. Nature, March 24, and October 13, 1921. Naturwissemchaften in 1929 and the fourth in Danish Reprinted 1961 in Fysisk Tidsskrift in 1929. Nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the United States. Neglecting quantities proportional to the square of the magnitude of the external electric force, we get for the rectilinear orbits in question where is the frequency of vibration and the amplitude of the orbit.
Neither has the necessary renunciation be set up, we are dealing with a view that is as regards an explanation of life itself been a incompatible with the interpretation of the psychohindrance to the wonderful advances which have physical parallelism here indicated. Nelson College must have produced lasting and happy impressions on him, as he took the title of Lord Rutherford of Nelson when elevated to the peerage and his last words before he died were a request to his wife to provide a small gift of money to the college.
Never- theless, such a course should be in the deepest inter- est of all nations, irrespective of differences in social and economic organization, and the hopes and aspira- tions for which it was attempted to give expression in the memorandum are no doubt shared by people all over the world. Nevertheless it has been apparent for some time that the solution should be sought for by investigating the possibilities of a spatial distribution of the electronic orbits in the atom instead of limiting the investigation to configurations in which all electrons belonging to a particular group move in the same plane as was assumed for simplicity in my first papers on the structure of the atom.
Nevertheless, international scientific cooper- ation continued as a decisive factor in the develop- ment which, shortly before the war, raised the pros- pect of releasing atomic energy on a vast scale. Nevertheless, it can scarcely be regarded as a satisfactory explanation of the helium spectrum. Nevertheless, it is this precession alone that is responsible for the multiplicity of the stationary states characterized by the subordinate quantum number. Nevertheless, recent pearing in this uncertainty is unavoidable already in an experience, above all the discovery of the selective re- analysis of the most elementary concepts employed in flection of electrons from metal crystals, requires the use interpreting experience. Nevertheless, the conservation included in the system to be observed.
Nevertheless, the conservation of energy and immediate sense. Nevertheless, these abstractions are, as we shall where denotes the velocity of light. New as this way of description is in physical science, it is nevertheless familiar in other fields of knowledge. New conditions arise, however, in the case of the next element, carbon, as this element in its typical chemical combinations cannot be supposed to occur as an ion, but rather as a neutral atom. New fundamental aspects of the observational problem, entailing a revision of the very foundation for the analysis of phenomena in terms of cause and effect, were to be uncovered by the development initiated by Planck's discovery of the universal quantum of action in the first year of this century.
Next corresponding to the simple periodicity of the radial motion in central systems, we see from (46), if 3 as well as 1 is considered as a constant, that during the perturbations 2 will be a function of 2 and vary in a simple periodic way with the time. Next it will be seen that, in case of the effect of an electric field on the hydrogen spectrum, we cannot detect by means of direct observations the circular polarisation of the radiation corresponding to transitions of the second type; because, for each transition giving rise to a radiation of circular polarisation in one direction, there will exist another transition giving rise to a radiation which possesses the same frequency but is polarised in the opposite direction.
Next, a direct connexion with the atomic theory is obtained by the assumption that each of these spectral terms multiplied by Planck's constant is equal to the work which must be done on the atom to remove one of its inner electrons. Next, an explanation of the essential features of the Zeeman effect for the hydrogen lines was worked out at the same time by Sommerfeld and Debye (1917).
Next, since for any value of this intensity different from zero the system will be non-degenerate, it follows from the conditions (61), that we must assume that the angular momentum round the axis of the field is always equal to an entire multiple of h/2; in consistence with the assumption of the validity of the analogous condition involved in the fixation of the stationary states by means of the method of separation of variables, when applied to an explanation of the Stark effect with neglect of the relativity modifications (compare page 145).
Next, with neglect of small quantities proportional to H 2 we have for the difference in the total energy between two neighbouring states of the perturbed system under consideration E = E0 + E = I + vH I, (82) where En and are the values of the energy and frequency and I is the value of the quantity defined by (5), all corresponding to the state of the undisturbed system which would appear if the magnetic force vanished at a slow and uniform rate, while E is the additional energy due to the presence of the magnetic field and I the angular momentum of the system round the axis of the field multiplied by 2 and taken in the same direction as that of the superposed rotation.
Next, with reference to the formal analogy between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation, it will be seen that the fact, that the motion of a free electron in its hyperbolic orbit cannot be resolved in a sum of harmonic vibrations of discontinuously varying frequencies but can only be represented by a Fourier integral extended over a continuous range of frequencies, suggests beforehand that the free electron may pass, under emission or absorption of radiation, to any one among a continuous multitude of other states corresponding to a continuous multitude of values for the energy of the system.
Nicholson has obtained a relation to Planck's theory showing that the ratios between the wave-length of different sets of lines of the coronal spectrum can be accounted for with great accuracy by assuming that the ratio between the energy of the system and the frequency o~ rotation of 1lie ring is equal to an entire multiple of Planck's constant. Niels Bohr Address at the Physical and Biological Congress in memory of Luigi Galvani, Bologna, October 1937. Niels Bohr Copenhagen, Denmark I ADDRESS MYSELF to the organization founded for the purpose to further cooperation between nations on all problems of common concern, with some considerations regarding the adjustment of international relations required by modern develop- ment of science and technology.
Niels Bohr Institute for Theoretical Physics, University of Copenhagen, Denmark The causal MODE of description has deep roots in our conscious endeavors to utilize experience for practical adjustment to our environments, and is in this way inherently incorporated in common language. Niels Bohr supplied the answer by an ingenious combination of Rutherford's atom with the principles of the quantum theory and which gave a better physical con- ception of both.
No attempt will be madehereto enlarge upon these ideas, which have been developed especially by M~ller and which will surely be a maintopic of the discussions at this meeting, but it may only bementioned that the question of the limit of observability fl or rather of fidefinabilityfl is not easily judged before a comprehensive formalism is established, and even for suchapproach a further analysis of the implications of the features of atomic theory gradually brought to light may, therefore, not be superfluous. No difficulty, however, in understanding this lecture need be experienced on this account, since the points of view underlying previous attempts to explain the spectra differ fundamentally from those upon which the following considerations rest.
No environment can develop certain qualities which are not innate, it can only allow for their fuller development. No necessity for visas and such things. No one has ever seen a Plancks resonator, nor indeed even measured its frequency of oscillation; we can observe only the period of oscillation of the radiation which is emitted. No subject indeed may be better suited lativity, which has been so fruitful for the elucidation of than the quantum theory to mark the development of the classical theories.
Non-perishStored foodstuffs undergo changes in cold able foods such as oil, honey and grain required no storage, the nature of which must be fully underspecial treatment ; meat and fish, however, were stood if the food is to be stored at the optimum preserved by drying or curing with salt, and roob temperature and if the store is to function efficvegetables for winter use as jams made with honey. Nor is there in this example any possi- particlesin the atom. Nor is there in this example any possibility with in the attempts to account for the in- for an asymptotical approach towards the problem dividuality of ultimate electrical particles on of free particles.
Nor should the difficulties in obtaining consent be an argument against taking the initiative since, irrespective of the immediate response, the very existence of an offer of the kind in question should deeply affect the situation in a most promising direction. Not have the aggressive powers still great military strength, although their original plans of world domination have been frustrated and it seems certain that they must ultimately sdrrender, but even when this happens, the nations united against aggression may face grave causes of disagreement due to conflicting attitudes towards social and economic problems.
Not least through a new discussion with Einstein in Princeton in 1937, where we did not get beyond a humorous contest concerning which side Spinoza would have taken if he had lived to see the development of our days, I was strongly reminded of the importance of utmost caution in all questions of terminology and dialectics. Not merely are we here presented with such contrasting pictures as meet observers attempting from different standpoints to describe the behavior of physical objects in terms of well established general concepts, but the very background for the attitude of different peoples to the various sides of life is engendered by traditions which have deep roots in historical developments.
Not only did Fowler with enthusiastic vigour participate in the work at the Cavendish, but he also soon found numerous gifted pupils who benefited from his inspiration. Not only did they confirm in all details the predictions of quantum theory as regards the dependence of the reaction cross-section on the energy of the protons, but it was also possible to connect the kinetic energy of the emitted a-rays with the masses of the reacting particles which were at that time known with sufficient accuracy thanks to Aston's ingenious development of mass spectroscopy.
Not only had one to wait until Lavoisier's time for the disclosure of the elementary principles of chemistry, which were to give the clue to the understanding of respiration and later to provide the basis for the extraordinary development of so-called organic chemistry, but, before Galvani's discoveries, a whole fundamental aspect of the laws of physics lay still hidden.
Not only has this theory, since Dalton applied with such decisive success atomistic concep tions to the elucidation of the quantitative laws governing the constitution of chemical compounds, become the indispensable foundation and never failing guide of all reasoning in chemistry; but the wonderful refinement of experimental technique in physics has even given us the means of studying phenomena which directly depend on the action of individual atoms. Not only have physics and chemistry become intimately amalgamated on a common basis, but the tools created by atomic research have proved most powerful in wide fields of technology and biology.
Not only is the venerated originator difficulties which, hence, are involved in the formulation of the theory present himself, but among the audience _ of the quantum theory, it seems, as we shall see, that its there will be several who, due to their participation in essence may be expressed in the so-called quantum the remarkable recent development, will surely be more 129511111119, which attributes to any atomic process an conversant with details of the highly developed for- essential discsmtjnuity, or rather individuality, com- malism than I am.
Not only is the well known dilemma between the corpuscular and undulatory character of light and matter avoidable only by means of the viewpoint of complementarity, but the peculiar stability properties of atomic structures which are in obvious contrast with the properties of any mechanical model, but which are so intrinsically connected with the existence of the quantum of action, form the very condition for the existence of the objects and measuring instruments, with the behavior of which classical physics is concerned.
Not only was any question of a return to a mode of description consistent with the principle of causality excluded by unambiguous experience of the most varied kind, but it soon proved possible to develop the original prim itive attempts at accounting for the existence of the quantum of action in atomic theory into a proper, essentially statistical atomic mechanics, fully comparable in consistency and completeness with the structure of classical mechanics of which it appears as a rational generalization. Not only was the decisive support of the Rutherford atomic model immediately recognized, but also the intuition which had led Mendeleev at certain places in his table to depart from the sequence of increasing atomic weights was strikingly brought out.
Not only was the difficulty of picturing the electronic constitution of chemical com- pounds on the basis of the Rutherford atomic model more and more evident, but insurmountable difficulties also arose in any attempts to account in detail for the complexity of atomic spectra, especially con- spicuous in the peculiar duplex character of the arc spectrum of helium. Note added during the proof .In Verh. Note added during the proof .In the Phys. Note: In the editing of the manuscript for publication, a few minor altera- tions of formal character have been made.
Notwith- standing the generalized significance of the superposition principle in quantum physics, an important guide for the closer study of observa- tional problems was repeatedly found in Rayleigh's classic analysis of the inverse relation between the accuracy of image-forming by micro- scopes and the resolving power of spectroscopic instruments. Notwith- through this relation is taken into account. Notwith- tween the quantum postulate and the distinction between standing this contrast, however, a formal connection object and agency of measurement, inherent in our very with the classical ideas could be obtained in the limit idea of observation. '
Notwithstanding all difference in the typical situations to which the notions of relativity and complementarity apply, they present in epi- stemological respects far-reaching similarities. Notwithstanding all differences between the physical problems which have given rise to the development of relativity theory and quantum theory, respectively, a comparison of purely logical aspects of relativistic and complementary argumentation reveals striking similarities as regards the renunciation of the absolute significance of conventional physical attributes of objects.
Notwithstanding all differences, a certain analogy between the postulate of relativity and the point of view of complementarity can be seen in this, that according to the former the laws which in consequence of the finite velocity of light appear in different forms depending on the choice of the frame of reference, are equivalent to one another, whereas, according to the latter the results obtained by different measuring arrangements apparently contradictory because of the finite size of the quantum of action, are logically compatible.
Notwithstanding all novelty of approach, causal description is upheld in relativity theory within any given frame of reference, but in quantum theory the uncontrollable interaction between the objects and the measuring instruments forces us to a renunciation even in such respect. Notwithstanding its fertility, the idea of the photon implied a quite unforeseen dilemma, since any simple corpuscular picture of radiation would obviously be irreconcilable with interference effects, which present so essential an aspect of radiative phenomena, and which can be described only in terms of a wave picture.
Notwithstanding refinements of terminology due to accumulation of experimental evidence and developments of theoretical conceptions, all account of physical experi- ence is, of course, ultimately based on common language, adapted to orientation in our surroundings and to tracing relationships between cause and effect. Notwithstanding such general considerations, it appeared for a long time that the regulatory functions in living organisms, disclosed especi- ally by studies of cell physiology and embryology, exhibited a fineness so unfamiliar to ordinary physical and chemical experience as to point to the existence of fundamental biological laws without counterpart in the properties of inanimate matter studied under simple reproducible experimental conditions.
Notwithstanding the diffi- ere can be no question of causality in the culties which hence are involved in the formulation ordinary sense of the word. Notwithstanding the encouragement given to the pursuit of such inquiries by the great example of relativity theory which, just through the disclo sure of unsuspected presuppositions for the unambiguous use of all physical concepts, opened new possibilities for the comprehension of apparently ir reconcilable phenomena, we must realize that the situation met with in modern atomic theory is entirely unprecedented in the history of physical science. Notwithstanding the enter on this task. Notwithstanding the ever-increasing difficulties of postal communica- tion, a steady correspondence with Rutherford was kept up.
Notwithstanding the fundamental departure from the ordinary mechanical and electrodynamical conceptions, we shall see, however, that it is possible to give a rational interpretation of the evidence provided by the spectra on the basis of these ideas. Notwithstanding the help which mathematics has always offered for such a task, it must be realized that the very definition of mathematical symbols and operations rests on simple logical use of common lan- guage.
Notwithstanding the most suggestive confirmation of the soundness and wide scope of the quantum-mechanical way of description, Einstein nevertheless, in a following conversation with me, expressed a feeling of disquietude as regards the apparent lack of firmly laid down principles for the explanation of nature, in which all could agree. Notwithstanding the power of quantum mechanics as a means of ordering an immense amount of evidence regarding atomic pheno- mena, its departure from accustomed demands of causal explanation has naturally given rise to the question whether we are here concerned with an exhaustive description of experience.
Notwithstanding the remarkable analogy between essential features of atomic processes and classical resonance problems, it must indeed be taken into account that in wave mechanics we are dealing with functions which do not generally take real values, but demand the THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 57 essential use of the symbol \/ 1 just as the matrices of quantum mechanics.
Notwithstanding the renunciation of orbital pictures, Hamilton's canonical equations of mechanics are kept unaltered and Planck's constant enters only in the rules of commutation h qp - pq = -(h/2p) , (2) holding for any set of conjugate variables q and p. Through a representation of the symbols by matrices with elements referring to transitions between stationary states, a quantitative formulation of the correspondence principle became for the first time possible. Now ac- cording to the relativity theory we have for a particle extinguish each other by interference at the space-time with the velocity v: boundary of the wave-field.
Now according to Rutherfords theory of atomic structure, a neutral hydrogen atom must be expected to consist of an electron and a positive nucleus of a mass very large compared with that of the electron, which move under the influence of a mutual attraction inversely proportional to the square of the distance apart. Now according to the view taken above, radiation according to the relativity theory we have for a in free s as well as isolated material par- particle with the velocity v : ticles are abstractions, their properties on the quantum theory being definabfiz and observable I=GZ,E and vdI =dE, only through their interaction with other systems.
Now for the elements of low atomic weight, such as helium and lithium, has a value very nearly unity for the Diffuse series, while for the Sharp series or the Principal series, the value is not at all as close. Now formula (23) again applies for large values of n and k, and shows the asymptotic agreement between the frequency of the radiation and the frequency of a harmonic component in the motion. Now from (1 ) and (2 ) it follows according to the above mentioned theorem of Jacobi (see for instance Jacobi, Vorlesungen uber Dynamik 37) that the variations with the time of the Is and ws will be given by E dIk = , dt wk dwk E = , dt Ik (k = 1, .
Now from the analogy with systems of one degree of freedom it seems necessary to assume that, for a system of several degrees of freedom for which the motions corresponding to the different coordinates are dynamically independent of each other, the a-priori probability is the same for all the states corresponding to different sets of ns in (15). Now in the latter state, the system allows a separation of variables not only in polar coordinates but also in any system of rectangular Cartesian coordinates, and by suitable choice of the direction of the axes, we can obtain that any orbit, satisfying (24) for a value of n > l, will also satisfy (22).
Now it follows from the considerations of Ehrenfest, mentioned in the former section, that the a-priori probability of a given stationary state is not changed by a continuous transformation, and we shall therefore expect that for any system of one degree of freedom the different states corresponding to different entire values of n in (10) are a-priori equally probable. Now it is easily seen that 2 the ratio between this amount of angular momentum and the amount of energy h emitted during the transition is just equal to the ratio between the amount of angular momentum and energy possessed by the radiation which according to ordinary electrodynamics would be emitted by an electron rotating in a circular orbit in a central field of force.
Now it is found that this remarkable limitation of the occurrence of combinations between spectral terms may quite naturally be explained by an investigation of the harmonic components into which a central motion can be resolved. Now it is impossible to find a series of simple intermediate forms for the motion of those two electrons in which the orbit of the last captured electron exhibits a sufficient similarity to a central motion that for this transition there could be a correspondence of the necessary kind. Now on ordinary electrodynamics the coefficients C1 ,...,s in the expression (31) for the displacements of the particles in the different directions would in the well known way determine the intensity and polarisation of the emitted radiation of the corresponding frequency 1 1 + .
Now on the basis of a vast amount of experimental evidence, we are forced to assume that an atom or molecule consists of a number of electrified particles in motion, and, since the above fundamental assumptions imply that no emission of radiation takes place in the stationary states, we must consequently assume that the ordinary laws of electrodynamics cannot be applied to these states without radical alterations. Now the actual hydrogen atom may obviously be considered as a perturbed system, formed by this periodic system, when it is exposed to a small central field for which the value of is given by (70).
Now the class of systems, referred to, is that for which, for a suitable choice of orthogonal coordinates, it is possible to find a total integral of (17) of the form S= s X Sk (qk , 1 , . Now the energy E of the undisturbed motion is determined completely by the value of I = k Ik .
Now the equations of motion of an electron of charge e, which besides by an electric field of potential V is acted upon by a magnetic field of vector potential A (defined by div A = 0 and curl A = H, where H is the magnetic force considered as a vector), can be written in the Hamiltonian form given by (4), if, just as in the absence of the magnetic field, E is taken equal to the sum of the kinetic energy T of the electron and its potential energy eV relative to the electric field, while the momenta which are conjugated to the positional coordinates q1 , q2 , q3 of the electron in space are defined by the equations1 ) p0k = pk e (vA) , c qk (k = 1, 2, 3) (83) where the ps are the momenta defined in the usual way (compare page 15), and where (vA) represents the scalar product of the velocity of the electron v and the vector potential A, considered as a function of the qs and of the generalised velocities q1 , q2 , q3 .
Now the frequency of a slow variation of the orbit will be seen to be proportional to the intensity of the external field, and it is therefore obviously impossible to establish the external field at a rate so slow that the comparative change of its intensity during a period of this variation is small. Now the helium spectrum contains two complete systems of series given by formul of the type (11) and the measurements of Rau mentioned below indicate that the configuration of the inner electron in the two corresponding systems of stationary states possesses the same energy.
Now the quantum postu- This view is already clearly brought out by the late implies that any observation of atomic much-discussed question of the nature of light and phenomena will involve an interaction with the the ultimate constituents of matter. Now the rules of the quantum theory lead to the introduction of a third quantum number through the condition that the resultant angular momentum of the atom, multiplied by 2, is equal to an entire multiple of Plancks constant. Now the theory of temperature-radiation in the form originally given by Planck confessedly lacked internal consistency, since, in the deduction of his radiation formula, assumptions of similar character as I and II were used in connection with assumptions which were in obvious contrast to them.
Now the width of of the experimental procedure described, but is the slit, at any rate if it is still large compared rather an essential property of any arrangement with the wave-length, may be taken as the suited to the study of the phenomena of the type uncertainty Aq of the position of the particle concerned, where we have to do with a feature relative to the diaphragm, in a direction perpen- of individuality completely foreign to classical dicular to the slit. Now the width of the slit, at any rate if it is still large compared with the wave-length, may be taken as the uncertainty hg of the position of the particle relative to the diaphragm, in a direction perpendicular to the slit.
Now this connection between the amplitudes of the different harmonic vibrations into which the motion can be resolved, characterised by different values of , and the probabilities of transition from a given stationary state to the different neighbouring stationary states, characterised by different values of n0 n00 , may clearly be expected to be of a general nature. Now we shall expect that every motion, for which it is possible to find a set of coordinates in which it satisfies (22), will be stationary.
Now, according to general relativity theory, a clock, when displaced in the direction of the gravitational force by an amount of Dq, will change its rate in such a way that its reading in the course of a time interval T will differ by an amount DT given by the relation DT / T = (1/c2) gDq, (7) By comparing (6) and (7) we see, therefore, that after the weighing procedure there will in our knowledge of the adjustment of the clock be a latitude DT > h / (c2 Dm) , Together with the formula (5), this relation again leads to DT .
Now, an important assumption, which is not only essential in Plancks theory of temperature radiation, but which also appears necessary to account for the molecular absorption in the infrared region of radiation, states that a harmonic oscillator will only emit and absorb radiation, for which the frequency is equal to the frequency of oscillation of the oscillator. Now, as already mentioned, it is a done above, means to neglect the spontaneous emission general consequence of the superposition principle that Of radiation which even in the absence of external in- it has no sense to co-ordinate a phase value to the group fluences puts an upper limit to the lifetime of the sta- as a whole, in the same manner as may be done for each tionary states.
Now, as already mentioned, principle has been recently %iven by Klein (Zeits. Now, in a discussion of the spectrum to be expected on the quantum theory, we are concerned only with these differences and not with the absolute values of the additional energy of the system due to the presence of the magnetic field. Now, in complete analogy to what is the case for periodic systems of one degree of freedom, it is proved in the analytical theory of the motion of conditionally periodic systems mentioned above that for the latter systems the coordinates q1 , .
Now, in general, the motion will differ considerably for any two states corresponding to successive entire values of n in (10), and a simple general connection between the quantum theory and ordinary statistical mechanics is therefore out of question. Now, in general, we must obviously assume that this variation cannot be calculated by ordinary mechanics, no more than the transition between two different stationary states corresponding to constant external conditions. Now, in many spectral problems, the external field possesses axial symmetry round an axis through the nucleus, and in this case it is easily shown that the problem of the fixation of the stationary states allows of a general solution.
Now, in the absence of external forces, the motion of the electron in the hydrogen atom forms a special simple case of the motion of a conditionally periodic system possessing an axis of symmetry, and may therefore be represented by trigonometric series of the type deduced for such motions in Part I. Now, in the limit of high numbers where the relative difference between quantum numbers these periods may be interpreted adjacent stationary states vanishes asymptotically, as periods of revolution.
Now, in the special case under consideration this problem may be treated very simply, if we imagine the weaker field as composed of two homogeneous fields of which the one is parallel and the other perpendicular to the stronger field, and if we consider separately the secular effect due to each of these fields. Now, in the with in the attempts to account for the individuality of w 88 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 89 ultimate electrical particles on general mechanical and Uhlenbeck into the discussion of the origin of the electrodynamical principles. Now, the configuration of an atomic system in its stationary states and also in the normal state will, in general, be completely determined.
Now, the description, symbolizing the ideali7 ' qu_antum postulate implies that any observation of and definition respectively. Now, the development in a new field will usually pass through stages in which chaos becomes gradually replaced by order; but it is not least in the intermediate stage where deep truth prevails that the work is really exciting and inspires the imagination to search for a firmer hold.
Now, this ideal only within the complementary mode of refinement of the eye, fully recognised only description, are at least as important for the through the recent development of physics, account of the behaviour of living organisms as suggests that other organs also, whether they for the explanation of the specific properties of serve for the reception of information from the inorganic matter. Now, when the relativity modifications are taken into account, the motion of the particles in the hydrogen atom will not, as assumed in 1, be exactly periodic, but the orbit of the electron will be of the same type as that, which would appear on ordinary Newtonian mechanics, if the law of attraction between the particles differed slightly from that of the inverse square.
Numerous investigations have been directed at this question both by Sommerfeld and his pupils and by Debye, Vegard and others. O 18 Dr. N. Bohr on tTle Constitution rather few lines are observed. O) Further, it can easily be shown that the mean value of the kinetic energy of tlle electron taken for a whole revolution is equal to W. W e see that it~ the value of W is not given, there will be no values of oJ and a characteristic for the system in question. ON THE CONSTITUTION OF ATOMS AND MOLECULES. ON THE NOTIONS OF CAUSALITY AND COMPLEMENTARITY. ON THE QUANTUM THEORY OF RADIATION AND THE STRUCTURE OF THE ATOM | PROJECT GUTENBERG. ON THE SERIES SPECTRA OF THE ELEMENTS. OPEN LETTER TO THE UNITED NATIONS.
Obviously the uncertainty Ap is inseparably connected with the possibility of an exchange of momentum between the particle and the diaphragm; and the question of principal interest for our discussion is now to what extent the momentum thus exchanged can be taken into account in the description of the phenomenon to be studied by the experimental arrangement concerned, of which the passing of the particle through the slit may be considered as the initial stage. Obviously type with which we are concerned in quantum the uncertainty Ap is inseparably connected with mechanics. Obviously, the introduction of such an assmnption would not make any alteration necessary in the classical treatment of a collision between two free particles.
Obviously, we get in this way the same expression for the kinetic energy of an electron ejected from an atom by photo-electric effect as that deduced by Einstein *, i. e. T = h v - W , where T is the kinetic energy of the electron ejected, and W the total amount of energy emitted during the original binding of the electron. Of course it is not my intention with such cursory remarks in any way to anticipate problems which will form the main theme for the discussions at the present conference, taking place at a time of new momentous empirical and theoretical advances, about which we are all eager to learn from the participants of the younger generation.
Of course there is in a case like that just considered no question of a mechanical disturbance of the system under investigation during the last critical stage of the measuring procedure. Of course there is in a to do with experimental arrangements consisting case like that just considered no question of a of apparatus essentially at rest relative to one mechanical disturbance of the system under another, but with arrangements containing mov- investigation during the last critical stage of the ing parts,like shutters before the slits of the measuring procedure.
Of course we are here often dealing with qualities unsuited to the quantitative analysis characteristic of so-called exact sciences, whose task, according to the programme of Galileo, is to base all description on well-defined measurements. Of course we are only here concerned with novel experiences of import- ance for action or contemplation. Of course, Rutherford was thoroughly acquainted with the phenomenon which only a few months before had led him to his epoch-making discovery of the atomic nucleus, but that such details of the life history of a-rays could now be witnessed directly by our eyes, he admitted to be a sur- prise, causing him extreme pleasure.
Of course, Rutherford was thoroughly acquainted with the phenomenon which only a few months before had led him to his epoch-making discovery of the atomic nucleus, but that such details of the life history of oc-rays could now be witnessed" "directly by our eyes, he admitted to be a surprise, causing him extreme pleasure" "Inthis connection Rutherford spoke most admiringly of the persistence with which Wilson already during their comradeship in the Cavendish had pursued his re searches on cloud formation with ever more refined apparatus. Of course, all contradictions in the complementary account in quantum physics were beforehand excluded by the logical consistency of the mathematical scheme upholding every demand of correspondence.
Of course, as a physicist I have no first-hand knowledge of the extensive and rapidly developing field of research to which this Institute is devoted, but I welcome Delbruck's suggestion to comment upon some general considerations about the relationship between biology and atomic physics, which I presented in an address entitled Light and Life, delivered at an International Con- gresson Radiation Therapy in Copenhagen thirty years ago.
Of course, far from conflicting with the argument of the impossibility in any well-defined description of physical experience of taking the interaction between the atomic objects under investigation and the tools of observation explicitly into account, such a situation would only give this argumentation sufficient scope for the logical comprehension of further regularities. Of course, in objective physical description no reference is made to the observing subject, while in speaking of conscious experi- ence we say "I think" or "I feel". Of course, no such simple rela- tion holds between the Keplerian motion of an electron around a heavy nucleus and the radiation emitted by transitions between the stationary states of the system.
Of course, only the possibility of such processes but not their actual traces are hereditary, leaving coming generations unencumbered by the LIGHT AND LIFE REVISITED 29 history of thinking, however valuable it may be for their educa- tion. Of course, such problems cannot be explored by any experimental arrangement suited for the tracing in space and time of each of the identical entities separately. Of course, the practically uniform temperature within the organisms reduces the thermodynamical requirements to constancy or steady decrease of free energy. Of course, the problems with which we are here confronted are immeasurably more complex than the elementary atomic processes where we are dealing with phenomena occurring under well defined and reproducible conditions.
Of course, the responsible statesmen alone can have the insight in the actual political possibilities. Of course, there can be no question of a quite tion is confronted in the quantum theory, and which mdependent application of the ideas of space and time have been the subject of repeated discussions, are now and of causality. Of course, there can two notions of light and also of matter enter in be no question of a quite independent application sharp contrast. Of course, we hope that you will support the Project GutenbergTM mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project GutenbergTM works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the Project GutenbergTM name associated with the work.
Of the many young physicists from abroad working in the Caven- dish Laboratory in those years, one of the most colourful personalities was Kapitza, whose power of imagination and talent as a physical engineer Rutherford greatly admired. Of these one is rectilinear with frequency oscillating parallel to the magnetic field, and two are circular with frequencies + and oscillating in opposite directions in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the field. Of these outer loops only one is shown in the figure. Of these the first is the format10n of a rela tively long-lived compound nucleus, while the second is the release of its excitation energy as a result of a competition between the various possible modes of dis intoegration and radiative processes.
Of these the first is the formation of a relatively long-lived compound nucleus, while the second is the release of its excitation energy as a result of a competition between the various possible modes of disintegration and radiative processes. On Newton's classical laws the orbit of the electron should be a circle or ellipse of size varying in a continuous way and from atom to atom depending on its history.
On Paschens photographs, however, especially in the case of the application of a condensed discharge to the vacuum tube containing the gas, there appear, in addition to the main components corresponding to transitions for which the angular momentum changes by h/2, a number of weaker components, corresponding to transitions for which the angular momentum remains unchanged or changes by higher multipla of h/2. On Sundays Rutherford regularly played golf in the morning with some close friends and dined in the evening in Trinity College, where he met many eminent scholars and enjoyed discussions on the most different subjects.
On a previous occasion (B) I have tried to express this situation by saying that every experimental arrangement suitable for following the behavior of the atoms constituting an organism in as exhaustive a way as implied by the possibilities of physical observation and definition would be incompatible with the maintaining of the life of the organism. On a visit to Cambridge I confessed that I could not share this indignat10n, and this remark was so welcomed that Kapitza and Dirac presented me with a replica of the relief ; installed above the fireplace m my office at the Copenhagen Institute it has since given me daily enjoyment."
On a visit to Cambridge I confessed that could not share this indignation, and this remark was I so welcomed that Kapitza and Dirac presented me with a replica of the relief; installed above the fireplace in my office at the Copenhagen Institute, it has since given me daily enjoyment. On account of the diffraction of the wave connected with the motion of the particle and indicated in the figure by the thin lines, it is under such conditions not possible to predict with certainty at what point the electron will arrive at the photographic plate, but only to calculate the probability that, in an experiment, the electron will be found within any given region of the plate.
On account of the ease with which neutrons, compared with charged particles, can pass through matter without transfer of energy to the electrons and penetrate into atomic nuclei, Chadwick's discovery opened great possibilities of producing new types of nuclear transmuta- tions. On account of the general correspondence between the spectrum of an atom and the decomposition of its motion into harmonic compoDownloaded from nents, we are led to compare the radiation emitted during the transition between two stationary states with the radiation which would be emitted by a harmonically oscillating electron on the basis of the classical electrodynamics.
On account of the great importance of the results, these experiments have been extended to most gases and metals that can be obtained in a gaseous state. On account of the indeterminateness of the plane of the orbit, however, this polarization cannot be directly observed. On account of the interaction between the two electrons these planes at the same time turn slowly around the fixed impulse axis of the atom. On account of the large mass of the nucleus relative to that of the electrons and its smallness in comparison to the electron orbits, the electronic motion will depend only to a very small extent on the nuclear mass, and will be determined to a close approximation solely by the total electrical charge of the nucleus.
On account of the limited time I shall not discuss how this explanation of the universal appearance of Rydbergs constant in the arc spectra is convincingly supported by the investigation of the spark spectra. On account of the peculiar conditions of stability which control the occurrence of incomplete groups in the interior of the atom, the energy which is necessary to bring about a transition to such a group will in general differ very little from that required to remove the particular electron completely from the atom.
On account of this fact, many examples of which we saw in the series spectra, we cannot expect to give an account of the firmness of the binding of the separate electrons, simply by means of a screening correction consisting in the subtraction of a constant quantity from the value for N in such formulae as (5) and (11).
On account of this penetration into the inner region, the strength with which an electron in such an orbit is bound to the atom will - in spite of the fact that for the most part it moves in a field of force of the same character as that surrounding the hydrogen nucleus - be much greater than for an electron in a hydrogen atom that moves in an orbit with the same principal quantum number, the maximum distance of the electron from the nucleus at the same time being considerably less than in such a hydrogen orbit. On account of this property of the ws, the quantities 2w1 , .
On account of this rotation, the frequency of which we will denote by , two circular rotations with the periods + and will appear in the motion of the perturbed electron, instead of each of the harmonic elliptical components with a period in the unperturbed motion. On account of this we shall expect that, due to the presence of the perpendicular component of the weaker field, the different components mentioned above will not be sharply polarised.
On account of this, the discussion of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states can, as pointed out by Ehrenfest,1 ) for systems of one degree of freedom be based on a mechanical theorem about periodic systems due to Boltzmann and originally applied by this author in a discussion of the bearing of mechanics on the explanation of the laws of thermodynamics. On closer consideration, the present formulation of quantum mechanics in spite of its great fruitfulness would yet seem to be no more than a first step in the necessary generalization of the classical mode of description, justified only by the possibility of disregarding in its domain of application the atomic structure of the measuring instruments themselves in the interpretation of the results of experiment.
On his arrival at Cambridge in October 1895 he continued to work on his magnetic detector. On his side, Einstein mockingly asked us whether we could really believe that the providential authorities took recourse to dice-playing (". On his theory the explanation of the properties of the various elements is based on a number of postulates about the structure of the atoms formulated for that purpose. On my visit to Manchester in June I had discussed with Darwin and Moseley the question of the proper sequence for the arrangement of the elements according to their atomic number, and learned then for thefirst time about Moseley's plans to settle this problem by systematic measurements of the high-frequency spectra of the elements by the Laue-Bragg method.
On one biological and physical researches are not directly hand, the question of the limitation of physics comparable, since the necessity of keeping the within biology would, of course, lose any meaning, object of investigation alive imposes a restriction if, in accordance with the original meaning of the on the former, which finds no counterpart in the word physics, we should understand by it any latter. On one constituents of matter. On one hand, in attempting ated material particles are abstractions, their properties to trace the laws of the time-spatial propagation of light on the quantum theory being definable and observable according to the quantum postulate, we are confined to ofily through their interaction With other systems.
On one hand, in attempting to trace 1928 Nature Publishing Group Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 581 the laws of the time-spatial propagation of light Plancks constant be denoted by &, as is well known, according to the quantum postulate, we are confined Br=IA=h, . On one occasion Ernest worked out the quantities of excavation and spoil required for a local roadway. On one occasion I expressed to him my admiration at the breadth and depth of his knowledge in almost every branch of physics and chemistry. On one of the following days, Rutherford was buried in Westminster Abbey, close to the sarcophagus of Newton. On one of the following days, Rutherford was buried in Westminster Abbey, close to the sarcophagus of Newton."
On one point, however, we may expect a connection with the ordinary conceptions; namely, that it will be possible to calculate the emission of slow electromagnetic oscillations on the basis of the classical electrodynamics. On our arrival in Manchester in early autumn, after a stormy voyage round Scotland, my wife and I were most kindly received by the few of our old friends who remained in the laboratory after the departure of colleagues from abroad and the participation in military duties by most of the British. On our theory we should, therefore, expect a much greater influence of an electric field on the first series than on the other two series.
On our view, however, the conditions are essentially different, since for the calculation of the firmness of the binding of the electrons it is necessary to take into consideration that the electrons in the more lightly bound groups in general during a certain fraction of their revolution will penetrate into the region of the orbits of electrons in the more firmly bound groups. On recommendations from the technical committee the organization would be able to judge the conditions under which industrial exploitation of atomic energy sources could be permitted with adequate safeguards to prevent any assembly of active material in an explosive state.
On such occa- sions he could even sometimes speak in a boyish way about venerable colleagues, but he never permitted himself to enter into personal con- troversies, and he used to say: "There is only one person who can take away one's good name, and that is oneself!" On such occasions he could even sometimes speak in a boyish way about venerable colleagues, but he never permitted himself to enter into personal controversies, and he used to say: " There is only one person who can take away one's good name, and that is oneself !''"
On such occasions it was always a great encouragement to feel the open mind and intense interest with which Rutherford followed the progress in the field of research which he had himself so largely initiated and the growth of which should carry us so far beyond the horizon which limited the outlook at the early stages. On that occasion an interesting discussion arose also about how to speak of the appearance of phenomena for which only predictions of statistical character can be made.
On that occasion, however, Rutherford did not tell me, what I only realized some months ago by looking through the report of the meeting, that no mention was made during the discussions at the conference of a recent event which was to influ- ence the following development so deeply, namely his own discovery of the atomic nucleus. On the above assumptions this formula may obviously be interpreted by assuming that the stationary states of an atom of an element form a set of series, and that the energy in the nth state of the th series, omitting an arbitrary constant, is given by E (n) = hf (n).
On the above view this can be interpreted by assuming: That every line in the spectrum corresponds to a radiation emitted by a certain elementary system during its passage between two states in which the energy, omitting an arbitrary constant, is given by and respectively; (2) That the system can pass between any two such states during emission of a homogeneous radiation. On the background of the most recent trend of the development this utterance has indeed an almost prophetic charac- ter. On the basis of (16), Sommerfeld has, as mentioned in the introduction, obtained a brilliant explanation of the fine structure of the lines in the hydrogen spectrum, due to the change of the mass of the electron with its velocity.1 ) To this theory we shall come back in Part II.
On the basis of Einstein's formulation of the THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 55 laws for the occurrence of radiation-induced transitions statistical between stationary states of an atomic system, Kramers in 1924 suc- ceeded in establishing a general dispersion formula, involving only the energies of these states and the probabilities of spontaneous transitions between them. On the basis of Larmors theorem the discussion of this problem is very simple. On the basis of an analysis of the whole evidence then available, the general relationship between the specified radioactive processes and the resulting change of the atomic number of the element was indicated by Russell in a lecture to the Chemical Society in the late autumn of 1912.
On the basis of an analysis of the whole evidence then available, the general relationship between the specified radioactive processes and the resulting change of the atomic number of the element was indicated by Russell in a lecture to the Chemical Society in the late autumn of 1912." On the basis of our picture of the constitution of the atom it is thus impossible, so long as we restrict ourselves to the ordinary mechanical laws, to account for the characteristic atomic stability which is required for an explanation of the properties of the elements. On the basis of the Rutherford atomic model, this view also im- mediately suggested an explanation of the appearance of the Rydberg constant in the more complex spectra of other elements.
On the basis of the conditions (61) it is possible to predict in detail, how the fine structure of the hydrogen lines will be influenced by an increasing electric field until, for a sufficiently large intensity of this field, the phenomenon develops gradually into the ordinary Stark effect. On the basis of the extremely accurate measurements of the wave- by Rowland and others, and after contributions lengths of spectral lines by Balmer and by Schuster, Rutherford's predecessor in the Man- chester Chair, the general spectral laws were most ingeniously clarified by Rydberg.
On the basis of the general relation between energy and frequency in the stationary states, we may then expect that it is possible to fix the motion in these states for the perturbed periodic system in the presence of both external fields with neglect of small terms of the same order as the largest of the quantities 2 and , and to fix the corresponding values for the energy with neglect of small terms of the same order as the largest of the quantities 2 and 2 .1 ) In general, however, the effect on the spectrum of the perturbed system, produced by the second external field, may be calculated without considering the perturbing effect of this field in detail.
On the basis of the large amount of experimental evidence adduced by him and his collaborators, it has been possible recently to give a classification of X-ray spectra that allows an immediate interpretation on the quantum theory. On the basis of the postulates given above we are, however, led to assume that the absorption of radiation corresponding to a spectral line emitted by a transition from one stationary state of the atom to a state of less energy is brought about by the return of the atom from the last-named state to the first. On the con- ments of positions outlined above.
On the con- that an instructive analysis of Schrodingers treatment trary, the conclusions obtained from the correspondence of the radiation phenomena from the point of view of the principle With the aid of class1cal pictures depend Lust correspondence principle has been recently given by ppon the assumptions that the conception of stationary Klein. On the contrary it will be necessary to assume that the four electrons in their exceptionally symmetrical orbital configuration will keep out later captured electrons with the result that these electrons will be bound in orbits of other types.
On the contrary this description, as appears from the preceding discussion, may be characterized as a rational utilization of all possibilities of unambiguous interpretation of measurements, compatible with the finite and uncontrollable interaction between the objects and the measuring instruments in the field of quantum theory.
On the contrary we must assume that the presence of electrons in 33 orbits will diminish the harmony of the orbits within the first two 3quanta subgroups, at any rate when a point is reached where the 19th electron is no longer, as was the case with scandium, bound considerably more lightly than the previously bound electrons in 3quanta orbits, but has been drawn so far into the atom that it revolves within essentially the same region of the atom where these electrons move. On the contrary, as the whole branch of physics, created so largely by himself, rapidly developed, Rutherford often expressed admiration for the new theoretical THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 73 methods, and even took interest in questions of the philosophical implications of quantum theory.
On the contrary, as the whole branch of physics, created so largely by himself, rapidly developed, Rutherford often expressed admiration for the new theoretical methods, and even took interest in questions of the philo sophical implications of quantum theory. On the contrary, the aim is to point to the necessity of reconsidering, from every side, the ways and means of cooperation for avoiding mortal menaces to civilization and for turning the progress of science to lasting benefit of all humanity.
On the contrary, the characteristic feature of a structure like that I have suggested is the intimate coupling between the motions of the electrons in the various groups characterized by different quantum numbers, as well as the greater independence in the mode of binding within one and the same group of electrons the orbits of which are characterized by the same quantum number.
On the contrary, the proper role of the indeterminacy relations consists in assuring quantitatively the logical compatibility of apparently contradictory laws which appear when we use two different experimental arrangements, of which only one permits an unambiguous use of the concept of position, while only the other permits the application of the concept of momentum defined as it is, solely by the law of conservation. On the contrary, the viewpoint toward fundamental biological questions which we have here discussed, would rather seem suited to put the old problem of psycho-physical parallelism in a new light.
On the contrary, this description, as appears from the preceding discussion, may be characterised as a rational utilisation of all possibilities of unambiguous interpretation of measurements, compatible with the finite and uncontrollable interaction between the objects and the measuring instruments in the field of quantum theory. On the nucleus theory this occurs in the region of very slow vibrations. On the of stationary states and individual transition pro- contrary, the conclusions obtained from the corre- cesses within their proper field of application spondence principle with the aid of classical possess just as much or as little * reality ' as the pictures depend just upon the assumptions that very idea of individual particles.
On the one hand the particles of the atom apparently could not be at rest in a state of stable equilibrium, and on the other hand we should have to expect that every motion which might be present would give rise to the emission of electromagnetic radiation which would not cease until all the energy of the system had been emitted and all the electrons had fallen into the nucleus. On the one hand, any violation of physico-chemical laws in organic life-such as the often mistakenly maintained contradiction between the activities of life and the fundamental theorems of thermo-dynamics -would be excluded from this point of view; on the other hand any insistence on an analogy between the existence of life itself and such laws should be rejected as irrational.
On the one hand, the clarification of the concept of chemical elements led to the under- standing of the laws governing the proportions in which these elements enter into chemical combinations. On the one hand, the construction of high tension generators and special discharge tubes allow the convenient and 16 NIELS BOHR finely regulated application of very penetrating radiation. On the one hand, the progress of science and technology has tied the fate of all nations inseparably together; on the other hand, it is on a most different cultural background that vigorous endeavors for national self-assertion and social development are being made in the various parts of our globe.
On the one hand, the very definition of the charge and mass of the electron and the nucleus rested entirely on an analysis of physical phenomena in terms of the principles of classical mechanics and electromagnetism. On the one hand, this effect gave striking support to the idea of stationary states and in particular to the quantum theory of the Zeeman effect developed by Sommerfeld, on the other hand, as exposed so clearly by Einstein and Ehrenfest, it presented with unsurmountable difficulties any attempt at forming a picture of the behaviour of atoms in a magnetic field.
On the ordinary theory of radiation we should therefore expect the system to emit a spectrum consisting of a series of lines of frequencies equal to , but, as it is seen, this is just equal to the series of frequencies which we obtain from (13) by introducing different values for n0 n00 . On the ordinary theory of radiation, we should expect from (31) that the spectrum emitted by the system in a given state would consist of an s-double infinite series of lines of frequencies equal to 1 1 + + s s . On the other hand it appears that our considerations already place the empirical data in a light which scarcely permits of an essentially different interpretation of the properties of the elements based upon the postulates of the quantum theory.
On the other hand it follows from (44) that, in a time interval of the same order as /, the constants 2 , . On the other hand it follows from previous remarks that the binding will be much lighter than for the first 18 electrons which agrees that in chemical combinations scandium appears electropositively with three valencies. On the other hand it is possible, also in this case, to apply the general considerations about perturbed periodic systems developed in the preceding. On the other hand it ought to be mentioned that the general laws applying to the spectra are very simply interpreted on the basis of our assumptions. On the other hand it should enter readily the structure of atoms and may either unite with the nucleus or be disintegrated by its intense field.
On the other hand the difficulty of the mechanical problem of course increases with the number of the particles in the atom. On the other hand the marked electropositive character of potassium may be explained by supposing one of the 19 electrons in the neutral atom to be as it were superfluous, and that this electron therefore is easily lost; the rest of the atom forming a positive ion of potassium having a constitution similar to that of the argon atom. On the other hand the spark spectra are connected with the last stage but one in the formation of the atom, namely the binding of the (N 1)th electron.
On the other hand, I have tried to convey to you the impression that just by emphasising so strongly this conflict it may also be possible in course of time to establish a certain coherence in the new ideas. On the other hand, a clue to the interpretation of the characteristic difference between the hydrogen spectrum and the spectra of other elements was first obtained by Sommerfelds theory of the stationary states of central systems referred to above. On the other hand, acknowledgment of a fundamental limitation in if in order to make observation possible we.per- the classical physical ideas when applied to atomic mib certain interactions with suitable agencies phenomena.
On the other hand, by emphasizing this conflict, I have tried to convey to you the impression that it may be also possible in the course of time to discover a certain coherence in the new ideas. On the other hand, from the fact that it has been possible by means of ordinary mechanics and electrodynamics to account for the phenomenon of temperature-radiation in the limiting region of slow vibrations, we may expect that any theory capable of describing this phenomenon in accordance with observations will form some sort of natural generalisation of the ordinary theory of radiation.
On the other hand, from the point of view of the general formal relation between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation, we must be prepared to find that the motion and the energy in the stationary states of a perturbed periodic system, for which we only know that the secular perturbations as determined by (46) are of conditionally periodic type, will not be as sharply defined as the motion and the energy in the stationary states of a conditionally periodic system for which the equations of motion allow of a rigorous solution by means of the method of separation of variables.
On the other hand, if in order to make momentum during the interaction between radiation and observation possible we permit certain interagtioALIith W-electric and Compton suitable agencies of measurement, not belonging to the effect, finds its_agl_equate expression iust in the light system, an unambiguous definition of the state of the quantum ideaput forward by Einstein. On the other hand, if the atom is exposed also to a magnetic field, this will not hold, because the value of the function M , in contrast to the value of E , will not possess the same sign for two orbits which have the same shape and position relative to the axis, but for which the direction of revolution of the electron is reversed.
On the other hand, if the effect of the magnetic field is large compared with that of the electric field, any weak component of the type under consideration, which corresponds to transitions in which the angular momentum of the electron round the axis of the magnetic field changes by two times h/2, will lie at a distance from the original hydrogen line, which is approximately twice as large as that of the outer components of the normal Zeethe transitions in question, change by two times h/2, while we may expect that the plane in which the electrical centre moves will generally, in at least one of the states involved in these transitions, differ from the positions of this plane in the ensemble of stationary states referred to.
On the other hand, if the effect of the magnetic field is the larger, the angular momentum of the electron round the axis of this field will, in nal electric field is large compared with that of the magnetic field, we might expect at first sight that, on each side of every of the Stark effect components polarised parallel to the electric force, there would appear a weak component which would be circularly polarised and be displaced from this component by an amount twice that of the displacement of the strong components into which the perpendicularly polarised Stark effect components are split up as a consequence of the small magnetic field.
On the other hand, if the intensity of the electric field is of the same order of magnitude as that applied in Starks experiments, the effect of these modifications must again be expected to be very small compared with the total effect of the electric force on the hydrogen lines, since the perturbing effect of this force on the Keplerian motion of the electron will be very large compared with the corresponding effects of the relativity modifications.
On the other hand, if the perturbing effect of the magnetic field is large compared with that of the electric, it follows that the main effect, produced by the latter field on the spectrum, may be described as the resolution of the middle component and of each of the outer components of the normal Zeeman effect into a number of components, corresponding to the parallel and perpendicular components respectively of a Stark effect produced by an electric field of intensity F cos . On the other hand, if the possible stationary states are selected in the manner explained in the text, the conformity in question will obviously be obtained.
On the other hand, in the calculations of the dynamical equilibrium in a stationary state in which there is no relative displacement of the particles, we need not distinguish between dm actual motions and their mean values. On the other hand, it appears from (17), (18), and (19) that the principal terms in the expressions for, and are the same as those deduced in the former section directly from the Balmer formula. On the other hand, it condemns as irrelevant any comparison of living organisms with machines, be these the relatively simple constructions contemplated by the old-iatro physicists, or the most refined modern amplifier devices, the uncritical emphasis of which would expose us to deserve the nickname of 'iatro-quantists'.
On the other hand, it rejects as irrational all such attempts at introducing some kind of special biological laws inconsistent with well-established physical and chem ical regularities, as have in our days been revived under the impression of the wonderful revelations of embryology regarding cell growth and division. On the other hand, just as in case of the latter effect, an explanation of the number of the components observed and their characteristic polarisations is directly obtained on the basis of the general formal relation between the quantum theory of line spectra and the ordinary theory of radiation.
On the other hand, so far as the values employed for the quantum number k are concerned, it may be stated with certainty, that the interpretation of the properties of the orbits, which they indicate, is correct. On the other hand, such correspondence would hold for the spectrum of a system consisting of an electron bound to a nucleus of charge Ze> whose stationary states are determined by the same value nh of the action integral. On the other hand, the field of study was so new that it was an easy matter to taste the joys of discovery.
On the other hand, the fulfil- Nevertheless, these abstractions are, as we shall see, in- ment of the claim of causality for the individual light dispensable for a description of experience in connection processes, characterized by the quantum of action, en- with our ordinag space-time view. On the other hand, the fulfilment of the claim of causality for the where Z and I are energy and momentum re- individual light processes, characterised by the spectively, - and A the corresponding period of quantum of action, entails a renunciation as regards vibration and wave-length. On the other hand, the later value is considerably larger than the ionization potential in helium (20.5 volts) measured directly by Franck and Hertz .
On the other hand, the observed intensities are directly accounted for, independent of any special theory about the origin of the lines. On the other hand, the progress of nuclear physics, which has created the possibility of releasing atomic energy on a large scale, supplied us with an abundance of new radioactive substances suited to treatments of very different kind. On the other hand, the so-called quantum postulate, stating that any change of the intrinsic energy of the atom consists in a complete transition between two stationary states, excluded the possi- accounting on classical principles for the radiative processes or bility of any other reaction involving the stability of the atom.
On the other hand, the structure of the nucleus will be responsible for the second class of properties that are shown in the radioactivity of substances. On the other hand, the study of the remarkably simple properties of gases led to the development of the mechanical theory of heat, offering an explanation of the general laws of thermodynamics which have found such fruitful application, not least in physical chemistry. On the other hand, the to the theoretical value 8 2 N em theories of Epstein and Schwarzschild gave no direct information as regards the question of the polarisation and intensity of the different components.
On the other hand, this degenerate character of the system has been emphasised by Schwarzschild1 ) on the basis of the theory of stationary states based on the introduction of angle variables, in which the periodicity properties of the motion play an essential part. On the other hand, this probability may be deduced by regarding the motion of the system under consideration as the degeneration of a motion characterised by three numbers n1 , n2 and n3 , as in the general applications of the conditions (22) to a system of three degrees of freedom.
On the other hand, this view, often known the ideal properties of the human eye as an optical as vitalism, scarcely finds its proper expression in the old supposition that a peculiar vital force, quite think we all agree with Newton that the real basis of science is the conviction that Nature under the same conditions will always exhibit the physical ideas to the phenomena of life, which same regularities. On the other hand, we may also regard equation (1) as a statement about a property of the process of radiation and inquire into the general laws which control this process.
On the other hand, we were led to assume from the general formal relation between the quantum theory of line spectra and the ordinary theory of radiation, that it is possible to obtain information about the stationary states of the perturbed system from a direct consideration of the slow variations which the periodic orbit undergoes as a consequence of the mechanical effect of the external field on the motion. On the other if we tried to carry the investigation of its organs hand, such a term as atomic mechanics would far that we could describe the role played by be misleading, if, as in common language, we single atoms in vital functions.
On the present theory the frequency of the radiation emitted by the transition from the stationary state is equal to When is large, this approaches to On the ordinary electrodynamics we should expect the frequency of the radiation to be equal to the frequency of revolution, and consequently it is to be anticipated that for large values of Introducing the values for and given by (5) and (7), we see that disappears from this equation, and that the condition of identity is From direct observations we have Introducing recent values for and, we get for the expression on the right side of (9) .The agreement is inside the limit of experimental errors in the determination and we may therefore conclude that the connexion sought between the present considerations and the Ordinary electrodynamics actually exists.
On the present theory we shall consequently expect that in this case only two kinds of transitions between the stationary states given by (22) will be possible. On the present theory we shall therefore expect that in the presence of the perturbing force there will appear small probabilities for new transitions which will give rise to radiations analogous to the so called harmonics and combination tones in acoustics, just as it should be expected on the ordinary theory of radiation where a direct connection between the emitted radiation and the motion of the system is assumed. On the present theory we should expect that the value for the energy necessary to remove an electron from the mercury atom could be calculated from the limit of the single line series of Paschen.
On the present theory, this indicates that the system which emits the spectrum possesses a number of series of stationary states for which the energy in the th state in the th series is given by where is an arbitrary constant, the same for the whole system of stationary states. On the principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states we shall therefore assume, following Ehrenfest, that (10) holds not only for a Plancks vibrator but for any periodic system of one degree of freedom which can be formed in a continuous manner from a linear harmonic vibrator by a gradual variation of the field of force in which the particle moves.
On the same occasion a in accounting for the new types of regularities more thorough discussion of space-time measurements in quantum theory will be given with all necessary mathe- with which we are concerned in atomic physics. On the same occasion a more thorough discussion of space-time measurements in quantum theory will be given with all necessary mathematical developments and diagrams of experimental. On the theoretical side and more free from security measures but with what practical applications no one can foresee, there are still great problems in course of investigation.
On the theory of material particles, de Broglie pointed out that basis of the procedure developed by these authors and the stationary states of an atom may be visualized as an in close connection with ideas of Born and Pauli, Heisen- interference effect of the phase wave associated with a berg has in the paper already cited above attempted a bound electron. On the theory of this paper the effect of an external field on the lines of a spectrum may be due to two different causes: (1) The field may influence the stationary states of the emitting system, and thereby the energy possessed by the system in these states. On the theory of this paper the only neutral atom which contains a single electron is the hydrogen atom.
On the whole a consideration of the magnetic properties of the elements within the fourth period gives us a vivid impression of how a wound in the otherwise symmetrical inner structure is first developed and then healed as we pass from element to element.
On the whole we may say that the spectrum of hydrogen shows us the formation of the hydrogen atom, since the stationary states may be regarded as different stages of a process by which the electron under the emission of radiation is bound in orbits of smaller and smaller dimensions corresponding to states with decreasing values of n. It will be seen that this view has certain characteristic features in common with the binding process of an electron to the nucleus if this were to take place according to the ordinary electrodynamics, but that our view differs from it in just such a way that it is possible to account for the observed properties of hydrogen.
On the whole we must expect that the spectra of elements in the later periods lying inside a frame will show new features compared with the spectra of the elements in the first three periods. On their side, the quantal features of the phenomenon are revealed in the information about the atomic objects derived from the observations.
On these occasions, Einstein challenged us with his subtle criticism which especially gave the inspiration to a closer analysis of the role of the instruments in the measuring process, A crucial point, irrevocably excluding the possibility of reverting to causal pictorial description, was the recognition that the scope of unambiguous application of the general conservation laws of momentum and energy is inherently limited by the circumstance that any experimental arrangement, allow- ing the location of atomic objects in space and time, implies a transfer, uncontrollable in principle, of momentum and energy to the fixed scales and regulated clocks indispensable for the definition of the reference frame.
On this account a complete 3quanta group cannot occur as the outermost group in a neutral atom, but only in positively charged ions. On this account helium was at first assumed to be a mixture of two different gases, orthohelium and parhelium, but now we know that the two spectra simply mean that the binding of the second electron can occur in two different ways. On this account the electrons will be bound with a firmness which is considerably greater than that with which the electrons are bound in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom corresponding to the same value of n. Now as regards the lithium spectrum as well as the other alkali spectra we are so fortunate (see page 48) as to possess definite evidence about the normal state of the atom from experiments on selective absorption.
On this account, therefore, the dimensions of the outer part of the orbit will not only deviate greatly from the dimensions of a 41 orbit in the hydrogen atom, but will coincide closely with a hydrogen orbit of the type 21 , the dimensions of which are about four times smaller than the 41 hydrogen orbit. On this assumption it can be shown generally that the conditions (8) and (11) are equivalent. On this assumption we get for the frequency of the radiation emitted by a transition between two states corresponding to and respectively: This formula gives for every hydrogen line two components situated symmetrically with regard to the original line.
On this assumption we shall expect in the first place that, apart from small quantities proportional to , the cycles of shapes and positions of the orbit belonging to the stationary states of the perturbed system will depend only on the character of the external field, but not on its intensity. On this background personal connec- tions between scientists of different nations might even SCIENCE, Vol. On this background the view suggests itself that, in the whole life of the organism, we have to do with processes of not immediately reversible character, corresponding to an ever-increasing stability under the prevailing conditions maintained by nutrition and respira- tion.
On this basis Schrodinger succeeded in 1926 by the establishment of his famous wave equation in applying with brilliant success the powerful means of function theory to the treatment of many atomic problems. On this interpretation we may naturally assume that the appearance of double lines in the spectra of many elements is due to small perturbing forces originating in the configuration of the inner electrons and having a different effect on the motion of the outer electron according to different positions of its orbits.
On this new background the apparent paradoxes involved in any attempt at a detailed description of the interaction between radiation and matter were early stressed by Einstein, who did not only call attention to the support for Planck's ideas offered by investigations of the specific heat of solids at low temperature but, in connection with his original treatment of the photoelectric effect, also introduced the idea of light quanta or photons as carriers of energy and momentum in elementary radiative processes. On this occasion we discussed the possibility that two of Sommer- feld's youngest pupils, of whom he had the greatest expectations, should come to Copenhagen.
On this occasion, Heisen- THE GENESIS OF QUANTUM MECHANICS 77 berg and I tried to convince him that his beautiful treatment of dis- persion phenomena could not be brought into conformity with Planck's law of black-body radiation without expressly taking into account the individual character of the absorption and emission processes. On this question opinion has been divided in respect to the conclusions that could be drawn from the relationships within the Periodic Table, and in many representations of the table a place is left open for this element in the rare-earth family. On this theory the structure of the neutral hydrogen atom is of extreme simplicity; it consists of an electron rotating round a positive nucleus of opposite charge.
On this view the total energy liberated is about 16 million volts and this is of the right order for the changes in mass involved, assuming the Conservation of Energy. On this view we should expect the Rydberg constant in (13) to be not exactly the same for all elements, since the expression (5) depends to a certain extent on the mass of the nucleus. On this view, the absence of paramagnetism would thus be a special property of the normal state, connected with the impossibility of spontaneous transitions from this state to other stationary states of the system.
On this view, the existence of life must division required by a physical analysis and such be considered as an elementary fact that cannot characteristic biological phenomena as the selfbe explained, but must be taken as a starting preservation and the propagation of individuals. On this view, we should expect that the radiation consists of as many lines as there are rings in the atom, the lines forming a series of rapidly increasing intensities. On visits to the United States in 1946 and in 1948 to take part in scientific conferences, I therefore availed myself of the oppor- tunity to suggest such an initiative to American statesmen.
Once more Einstein's searching spirit had elicited a peculiar aspect of the situation in quantum theory, which in a most striking manner illustrated how far we have here transcended customary explanation of natural phenomena. Once this point has been reached we must be prepared to find with increasing atomic number a number of elements following one another, which as in the family of the iron metals have very nearly the same properties. One can trace to this period the hymns which were engrained on his mind and which later he unconsciously and unknowingly regaled his co-workers on occasions, particularly 'Onward Christian Soldiers' when experiments were going well.
One earlier procedures are involved, but his funda- might say, indeed, that the hypothesis of the mental equations themselves contain quantities magnetic electron, together with the resonance of a still higher degree of complexity, that are problem elucidated by Heisenberg (Zeits. One important consequence of this was an understanding of the chemical properties of atoms of successive radioactive products, i.e. One might per- uncertainty in the value of the momentum of the parti cle haps expect that in estimating the accuracy of determin- after observation.
One might say, indeed, that touched upon would seem to be possible only by means the hypothesis of the magnetic electron, together with Ounantum-theoretical transcription of tpe the resonance problem elucidated by Heisenberg, which general field theory, in which the ultimate quantum of occurs in the quantum-theoretical description of the be- electricity has found its natural position as an expressmn haviour of atoms with several electrons, have brought of the feature of individuality characterizing the quantum the corres ondence interpretation of the spectral laws thwg. One of the points where this becomes particularly apparent is the hydrogen line spectrum.
One of the visitors was the great S. Arrhenius from Sweden, then fairly old, and I used to linger often at his bench on my rounds to talk to and learn from him. One then just had to wait until he woke up and resumed the conversation with his usual vigour as if nothing had happened. One then just had to wait until he woke up and resumed the conversation with usual vigour as if nothmg had happened." One was indeed here confronted with the beginning of a new stage in the development of quantum physics, concerned with the creation and annihilation of material particles analogous to the processes of emission and absorption of radiation in which photons are formed and disappear.
One was therefore led to seek for a formulation of the principles of the quantum theory that could immediately account for the stability in atomic structure and the properties of the radiation sent out from atoms, of which the observed properties of substances bear witness. One was therefore led to suspect that the ionization observed was not directly related to the electronic collisions but was due to an accompanying photoeffect on the electrodes, produced by the radiation emitted by the mercury atoms on their return from the first excited state to the ground state.
Only a few months before the conference Heisenberg had made a most significant contribution to the elucidation of the physical content of quantum mechanics by the formulation of the so-called indeter- minacy principle, expressing the reciprocal limitation of the fixation of canonically conjugate variables. Only at higher temperatures or under the influence of electric discharges whereby an appreciable number of atoms are being constantly disrupted from the normal state, can we expect absorption for other lines in the emission spectrum in agreement with the experiments. Only for a period following the death of two of the younger boys by drowning in the adjacent sounds did she lose her sunny disposition.
Only in this limit can energy and mo- in question, where just the importance of the mentum be unambiguously defined on the basis electric charge appears. Only tion, however, it is impossible to define momentum and in this limit can energy and momentum be unambigu- energy for an electron without considering a finite space- ously defined on the basis of space-time pictures. Only when becomes of the same order as unity, the simultaneous effect of both perturbing fields may be expected to consist in a diffusion of the lines of the undisturbed periodic system; unless of course the secular perturbations due to the simultaneous presence of both fields are still of conditionally periodic type, as it may happen in special problems.
Only when the development of this group has been completed may we expect to find once more a corresponding change in the properties of the elements with increasing atomic number such as we find in the preceding periods. Only when the disturbing forces become so large that even during a single revolution of the electron the orbit is appreciably disturbed, will the spectrum undergo essential changes. Only with the aid of the super- The problem of the nature of the constituents of Position principle does it become possible to attain matter (gteeents us with an analogous situation.
Only with the aid of the superposition principle By a lack Of sharpness 1n the definition of period apd does it become possible to attain a connection with the wave-length, and hence also in the definition of the gor ordinary mode of description. Ordinary optical spectra behave in an analogous way. Other spirited and heuristic attempts at exploring quantum features in many properties of matter were described by Sommerfeld, who especially discussed the production of X-rays by high speed electrons as well as problems involving the ionization of atoms in the photo- effectand by electronic impact.
Our conceptions of atomic structure afford us, therefore, an immediate explanation of the complete lack of interdependence between the two classes of properties, which is most strikingly shown in the existence of substances which have to an extraordinarily close approximation the same ordinary physical and chemical properties, even though the atomic weights are not the same, and the radioactive properties are completely different. Our conversations touched upon many problems in physics and philosophy, and the requirement of unambiguous definition of the concepts in question was particularly emphasized. Our discussion concentrated on the possible application of an apparatus incorporating Einstein's device and drawn in Fig.
Our ordinary electrodynamic conceptions are probably insufficient to form a basis for an explanation of atomic magnetism. Our picture would, however, be incomplete without some reference to the confirmation of the theory afforded by the study of X-ray spectra. Our talks about the attitude to be taken in face of a novel situation as regards analysis and synthesis of experience touched naturally on many aspects of philosophical thinking, but, in spite of all divergencies of approach and opinion, a most humorous spirit animated the discussions.
Owing to the diversified use of the rich vocabulary avail- able for communication of experience in those wider fields, and above all to the varying interpretations, in philosophical literature, of the concept of causality, the aim of such comparisons has sometimes been misunderstood. Owing to the external forces the form and position of the orbit will vary continuously. Owing to the greater velocity of the electron, the intervals between the components into which a line is split up are here much greater and can be measured with much greater accuracy.
Owing to the presence of the factor cc-l in this expression, W(Y) is very large compared with mc2 even for y-r0, and such calculations, therefore, serve to illustrate the radical difference as regards the self-energy problem in classical and quantum theory. PARTICLES Here again we meet with the contrast between the When due regard is taken of the Weature wave-theory superposition principle and the assumption required by the quantum postulate, it seems, in fact, of the individuality of particles with which we have been possible with the aid of the symbolic methods to build concerned alreadyIn the case of free particles.
Par from implying any arbitrary renunciation on detailed analysis of physical phenomena, this viewpoint of complementarity represents a wider frame for the description, allowing us to embrace regularities beyond the scope of ordinary physical explanation. Paramagnetism and colours do occur in elements belonging to the foregoing periods, but not in simple compounds where the atoms considered enter as ions. Part I contains a brief discussion of the general principles of the theory and deals with the application of the general theory to periodic systems of one degree of freedom and to the class of non-periodic systems referred to above. Part II contains a detailed discussion of the theory of the hydrogen spectrum in order to illustrate the general considerations.
Part III contains a discussion of the questions arising in connection with the explanation of the spectra of other elements. Part IV contains a general discussion of the theory of the constitution of atoms and molecules based on the application of the quantum theory to the nucleus atom. Participation in a development, largely initiated by international scientific collaboration and involving im- mense potentialities as regards human welfare, would also reinforce the intimate bonds which were created in the years before the warz between-scientists of different nations.
Particularly suggestive was the derivation on such lines of the laws of the Compton effect, which, in spite of the striking support it gave to Einstein's original photon idea, at first presented obvious difficulties for a corre- spondence treatment, attempting to combine conservation of energy and momentum with a division of the process in two separate steps, consisting in an absorption and an emission of radiation resembling radiative transitions between the stationary states of an atomic system. Particularly the course of the Nand O-curves may be regarded as a direct indication of that stage in the development of the electron groups with 4-quantum orbits of which the occurrence of the rare-earths bears witness.
Passing to the limiting case where the intensity of the electric field is equal to zero, it will thus be seen at once from the preceding, that the effect of a homogeneous magnetic field on the fine structure of the hydrogen lines will consist in the splitting up of every component in a normal Lorentz triplet. Perhaps I ought to apply the same advice in this lecture! Phys., 45, 751 ; 1927) have recently arrived at the According to the quantum postulate any ob- formulation of the problem of interaction expressed servation regarding the behaviour of the electron by the Schrodinger wave equation, taking as in the atom will be accompanied by a change in starting-point the wave representation of individual the state of the atom.
Phys., 48, 188; 1927) has ment of analogous problems has been carried out directed attention to the e)ossibihby of connect- by Kennard (Zeits. Phys., 83, p. 956 ; 1927), emphasises involves a neglect of the finite velocity of propaga- the fact that the discontinuous exchange of energy tion of the forces claimed by relativity theoz between atoms required by the quantum postulate, On the whole, it would scarcely seem ]ust,:zsible, from the point of view of the wave theory,is in the case of the interaction problem, to demand replaced by a simple resonance phenomenon. Phys., panied by a lack of sharpness in the definition of 48, 172; 1927). Phys., represented by matrices. Pitchblende-which is a uranium mineral-was weight for weight decidedly more powerful.
Planck considered the equilibrium of radiation between a number of systems with the same properties as those on which Lorentz had based his theory of the Zeeman effect, but he could now show not only that classical physics could not account for the phenomena of heat radiation, but also that a complete agreementwith the experimental law could be obtained if - in pronounced contradiction to classical theory - it were assumed that the energy of the vibrating electrons could not change continuously, but only in such a way that the energy of the system always remained equal to a whole number of so-called energy-quanta.
Planck did not limit himself exclusively to the classical electrodynamics, but introduced the further assumption that a system of oscillating electrical particles (elementary resonators) will neither radiate nor absorb energy continuously, as required by the ordinary electrodynamics, but on the contrary will radiate and absorb discontinuously. Planck's surprising result stood at first completely isolated in natural science, but with Einstein's significant contributions to this subject a few years after, a great variety of applications was found.
Plancks theory would hardly have acquired general recognition merely on the ground of its agreement with experiments on black body radiation, but, as you know, the theory has also contributed quite remarkably to the elucidation of many different physical phenomena, such as specific heats, photoelectric effect, Xrays and the absorption of heat rays by gases. Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses. Plucker had found that as the gas in a spectrum tube was gradually exhausted the lead-in conductor or cathode becomes surrounded by a luminous glow which expands as exhaustion proceeds.
Points of attack for this formula gotten, however, that in the classical theories any suc- tion are presented in the first place by the problem of cEcling observation permits aprediction of future events atomic constitution. Points of attack for this formulation momentum transmitted by the scattering could are presented in the first place by the problem of not be determined by means of the conservation atomic constitution. Preliminary calculation showed that the ioniza- tion current in a gas due to a single a-particle might be just on the verge of the magnitude necessary for direct detection, but the practical difficulties proved too great with the apparatus then available.
Previous lectures were given by Sir John Cockcroft in New Zealand in 1952 and by Sir James Chadwick in Canada in 1953. Previous to the appearance of this paper Kramers had commenced a closer investigation of precisely this type of motion in order to find out to what extent it was possible from such a calculation to account for the firmness with which the electrons are bound in the helium atom, that is to account for the ionization potential. Previously it has been assumed that the properties of this configuration were due to the interaction between eight electrons which moved in equivalent orbits outside the nucleus and an inner group of two electrons like that in the helium atom. Previously we could watch and study but not control atomic changes.
Printed in Creat Britain by R, & R, Crann, Lixarup, Edinturgh, 1928 Nature Publishing Group Proceeding as on page 4, suppose when is large where and denote the energy and the frequency in the state. Proceeding in the same way as above, we get in this case instead of (3) ~V ~r~me~E~t to= ~r2me2E2 2h~f~(r) ' 2/~9'3(r)" Assuming as above that the amount of energy emitted during the passing of the system from a state corresponding to r=rl to one for which r=% is equal to hv, we get instead or" (4) w~me~E~{ 1 1 ) We see that in order to get an expression of the same form as the Balmer series we must p u t f ( r ) = c r .
Proceeding in this way, Kossel was able to trace further relationships between Moseley's measurements of the spectral frequencies, which permitted him to represent the whole high-frequency spectrum of an element as a combination scheme in which the product of any of the terms and Planck's constant was to be identified with the energy required to remove an electron from a shell in the atom to a distance from the nucleus beyond all the shells.
Proceeding to consider systems of a more complicated constitution, we shall make use of the following theorem~ which can be very simply proved : - - " In every system consisting of electrons and positive nuclei, in which the nuclei are at rest and the electrons move incircular orbits with a velocity small compared with the velocity of light, the kinetic energy will be numerically equal to half the potential energy." Proceeding to still higher atomic numbers we again meet different conditions. Professor and Mme Joliot Curie had found that the radiation produced when a-particles bombard beryllium had unique properties but it was difficult to devise a picture of the process.
Project Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given awayyou may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected by U.S. copyright law. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use of the Project Gutenberg trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project GutenbergTM collection.
Project GutenbergTM eBooks are often created from several printed editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Prophetic words to be realized experimentally by Chadwick 12 years later. Provisionally picturing such states of the electron system as planetary motions obeying Keplerian laws, it was found possible to deduce the Rydberg constant by suitable comparison with Planck's original expression for the energy states of a harmonic oscillator. Putting f ( r ) = 2, we, howeCer, again arrive at the equation (2) and eonsequent[y at the expression (3) for the stationary states. Putting in (3) we get the ordinary series spectrum of hydrogen.
Putting in the above expressions T = I and E = c , and introducing the expei'imental values e=4"7.10 -10, e~=5"31.1017, h=6"5.10 -97, ?n we get 2a=l.l.10_Scm. ' Putting n1 + n2 = n, it will further be seen that the factor outside the bracket will coincide with the expression for Wn given by (41) in 1, if we look apart from the small correction due to the finite mass of the nucleus. Putting we get a spectrum which, on the theory, should be expected to be emitted by an electron rotating round a helium nucleus.
QUANTUM OF ACTION AND KINEMATICS case of light, we have consequently in the question of the The fundamental contrast between the quantum of nature of matter, so far as we adhere to classical concepts, action and the classical concepts is immediately apparent to face an inevitable dilemma which has to be regarded from the simple formulae which form the common foun- as the very expression of experimental evidence.
Quite apart from the characteristics of living beings must be sought, practically inexhaustible abundance of biological no doubt, in their peculiar organisation, in which | phenomena, an answer to this question can features that may be analysed by the usual | scarcely be given without an examination of what mechanics are interwoven with typically atomistic we may understand by a physical explanation, traits in a manner having no counterpart in still more penetrating than that to which the inorganic matter. Quite apart from the fine humour with which the story is told, it is certainly not easy to give a more pertinent account of essential aspects of the situation with which we all are faced.
Quite apart from the question of how soon the weapon will be ready for use and what role it may play in the present war, this situation raises a number of problems which call for most urgent attention. Quite apart from the question of the detailed theoretical interpretation of the formula (13), it seems that it may be possible to test the validity of this formula by direct measurements of the minimum voltages necessary to produce spectral lines. Quite apart from the role atomic weapons might come to play in the war, it was clear that permanent grave dangers to world security would emme unless m&%nres CQ p~~%t,abuse of the new formidable means of destruction could be universally agreed upon and carried out.
Quite indepen- dent of the new experimental evidence as regards the structure of the atom, there was therefore a widespread expectation that quantum concepts might have a decisive bearing on the whole problem of the atomic constitution of matter. Quite independent of the new experimental evidence as regards the structure of the atom, there was therefore a widespread expectation that quantum concepts might have a decisive bearing on the whole problem of the atomic" <:onstitution of matter. Quite recently, how- ever, Dirac has been able successfully to attack the pro- blem of the magnetic electron through a new ingenious extension of the symbolical method and so to satisfy the relativity requirement Without abandoning the agree- ment with spectral evidence.
Quite recently, however, Einstein1 ) has succeeded, on the basis of the assumptions I and II, to give a consistent and instructive deduction of Plancks formula by introducing certain supplementary assumptions about the probability of transition of a system between two stationary states and about the manner in which this probability depends on the density of radiation of the corresponding frequency in the surrounding space, suggested from analogy with the ordinary theory of radiation. Quite that the ultimate electrical particles, besides their recently, however, Dirac (Proc.
R. C. Maclaurin afterwards became a great president of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston, U.S.A. Rutherford, thinking he had missed the award, took a temporary teaching post at a local secondary school where he was not very successful as an orthodox disciplinarian. REALITY OF STATIONARY STATES nected with the energy difference between the Maxim In the conception of stationary states we are, as men- states according to relation (1). REORGANIZATION OF ATOMS AND XRAY SPECTRA As in the case of the series spectra it has also been possible to represent the frequency of each line in the Xray spectrum of an element as the difference of two of a set of spectral terms. Radioactive is the one sufficient term to characterize the total impression made upon us by his personality.
Radium-emanation-radium A, B, C, D, E and F all in linear descent. Rather, they aim at avoiding futile controversies by an analysis of the presuppositions and of the appropriateness of the conceptual structures involved. Realising, however, the many obstacles for mutual understanding as regards a matter where approach and background must influence everyone's attitude, I have welcomed this opportunity of a broader exposition of the development by which, to my mind, a veritable crisis in physical science has been overcome. Realizing the significance of the work for potential war purposes and the war having broken out, the leading workers voluntarily arranged for suppression or delay of further publications and this was later made mandatory.
Recalling our education in elementary mathematics, we are likewise reminded of the wonderful experience in our early youth when we learned to estimate distances and heights of trees by the simple geometric constructions that were used by the ancient Egyptians and Mesopotamians with such skill in both geodesy and astronomy. Recapitulating, the impossibility of subdividing the individual quantum effects and of separating a be havior of the objects from their interaction with the measuring instruments serving to define the conditions under which the phenomena appear implies an am biguity in assigning conventional attributes to atomic objects which calls for a reconsideration of our attitude towards the problem of physical explanation.
Recent and more accurate determinations, however, have given a value for the ionization potential of helium which is considerably lower and lies in the neighbourhood of 25 volts. Recently Klein has directed attention to the pos- and tmem to a certain degree ofcompletion. Recently T. Malmer has measured the wave-length of and for a number of elements of higher atomic weight, and it is therefore possible to test the relation over a wider range and without extrapolation. Recently however the question has been reopened and Fowler (1912) has succeeded in observing the Pickering lines in ordinary laboratory experiments.
Recently there has been interest in the so-called hydrogen bomb which is based on a principle different from that of breaking down the heavy fissile materials uranium-235, plutonium or uranium-233, although it needs a small uranium or plutonium bomb as detonator. Recently, however, a communication was published by Dauvillier announcing the observation of some weak lines in the X-ray spectrum of a preparation containing rare-earths.
Recently, however, a way out of this difficulty has been opened by Sommerfeld2 ) who, by introducing a suitable generalisation of the theory to a simple type of non-periodic motions and by taking the small variation of the mass of the electron with its velocity into account, obtained an explanation of the fine-structure of the hydrogen lines which was found to be in brilliant conformity with the measurements. Recognition of complementary relationship is not least required in psychology, where the conditions for analysis and synthesis of experience exhibit striking analogy with the situation in atomic physics. Redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.
Referring once more to the figure of the sodium spectrum, we see that the black arrows, which correspond to the spectral lines appearing under the usual conditions of excitation, only connect pairs of points in consecutive rows. Regarding the latter point, Einstein emphasised the fundamental character of the statistical description in a most suggestive way by drawing attention to the analogy between the assumptions regarding the occurrence of the spontaneous radiative transitions and the well-known laws governing transformations of radioactive substances. Relationships between the elements The discussion above can be applied immediately to the process whereby an electron is bound to a nucleus with any given charge.
Relativistic electron theory, however, involves the charge e and mass m of the electron, and essential characteristics of the phenomena are limited to spatial extensions of the order h/mc. Relativity effect on hydrogen lines. Reluctance to renounce deterministic description in principle was especially expressed by Einstein, who challenged us with arguments suggesting the possibility of taking the interaction between the atomic objects and the measuring instruments more explicitly into account. Remembering that in our notation n1 + n2 = n and n2 = n, it will be seen that, as regards the small differences in the energy of the different stationary states corresponding to the same value of n, formula (71) gives the same result as Sommerfelds formula (68).
Remembering that, according to the conditions (61), the angular momentum of the system round the axis in the stationary states is equal h to n2 , it will be seen moreover that, also in the present 2 case, these conclusions obtain an independent support from a consideration of conservation of angular momentum during the transitions (Compare Part I page 64).1 ) In the following we will meet with applications of these considerations when discussing the effect of electric and magnetic fields on the hydrogen lines.
Remembering that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to the magnetic force, the angular momentum of the system round the axis of the field remains unaltered in transitions of the first type and changes by h/2 in transitions of the second type, it will be seen that this conclusion is independently supported by a consideration of conservation of angular momentum during the transitions, like that given in Part I on page 64. Remembering the re- sist in general in the ejection of the electron from the striction mentioned, this interpretation is seen to be a atom. Remembering the restric- interpretation of observations, a fundamental tion mentioned, this interpretation is seen to be a renunciation regarding the space-time description msimgle consequence of the a-ssum?
Report of an International Conference on Fundamental Particles and Low Temperatures held at the Cavendish Laboratory, Cambridge, on 22-27 July 1946, Volume 1, Fundamental Particles, The Physical Society, London 1947, PP. Rereading these passages, I am deeply aware of the inefficiency of expression which must have made it very difficult to appreciate the trend of the argumentation aiming to bring out the essential ambiguity involved in a reference to physical attributes of objects when dealing with phenomena where no sharp distinction can be made between the behaviour of the objects themselves and their interaction with the measuring instruments.
Responding to Rutherford's challenge, I tried to look into the matter, and it was soon clear to me that in the effects of electric and fields we had to do with two very different magnetic problems. Results of interest were also obtained for the spectra of elements of higher atomic number, the explanation of which in the meantime had made important progress through the work of Sommerfeld, who introduced several quantum numbers for the description of the electron orbits. Returning for a moment to the case of the simple arrangement indicated in Fig. Returning now to systems of one degree of freedom, we shall take our starting point from Plancks original theory of a linear harmonic vibrator.
Returning now to the problem of the fixation of the stationary states of a periodic system subject to the influence of a small external field of constant potential, we shall base our considerations on the fundamental assumption that these states are distinguished between the continuous multitude of mechanically possible states by a relation between the additional energy of the system due to the presence of the external field and the frequencies of the slow variations of the orbit produced by this field, which is analogous to the relation discussed on page 80 in the special case in which the perturbed system allows of separation of variables in a fixed set of coordinates.
Returning to the simple case of an electron and a positive nucleus considered above, let ns assume that the electron at the beginning of the interaction with the nucleus was a~ a great distance apart from the nucleus, and had no sensible veloelty relative to the latter. Returning to the theory of Nicholson on the origin of lines observed in the spectrum of the solar corona, we shall now see that the difficulties mentioned on p. 7 may be only formal. Roentgen found that his X-radiation set out from the place where the cathode rays strike an obstacle. Royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns.
Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in Section 4, Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Rubinowicz has independently indicated the conclusions which may be obtained directly from a consideration of conservation of angular momentum during the radiation process. Rutherford also admonished Bohr to make the paper shorter and more concise so as to make it easier for the reader and therefore more likely to be widely read. Rutherford and Geiger's direct result overcame much of this scepticism and as we shall see later Bohr's attention was attracted to the further consequences of the quantum theory with important results.
Rutherford and his wife were at that time still in America on their way back from a visit to their relatives in New Zealand, and it goes without saying that their safe return to Manchester some weeks later was greeted by all of us with great relief and joy. Rutherford conceived the idea of utilizing the property of ionization by collision in a strong electric field to multiply the effect and this method proved successful. Rutherford did not live to see the great technological revolution which was to ensue from his discovery of the atomic nucleus and his subsequent fundamental researches. Rutherford died before these aspects of secrecy arose. Rutherford had both these qualities.
Rutherford had in the meantime attracted several workers to join in the chase and his laboratory became a hive of activity. Rutherford had many experiments in progress with different extracted substances and in different rooms on various floors of the laboratory. Rutherford had to suppose electrons as describing orbits, otherwise the attraction of the positive nucleus would draw them imnmediately into it just as in the case of the planets and the sun in the solar system.
Rutherford himself had as early as 1920 in his second Bakerian Lecture clearly pointed out the difficulties of interpreting a-ray emission from nuclei on the basis of the simple mechanical ideas, which had proved so helpful in explaining the scattering of oc-particles by nuclei, since the velocity of the ejected particles was not large enough to allow them by reversal to re-enter the nuclei against the electric repulsion. Rutherford immediately threw himself into the development of a radioactive school. Rutherford tried to deflect them in a strong magnetic field in order to decide whether they were particulate or some type of X-radiation.
Rutherford was at that time almost alone in the laboratory, and as told in his letters, the only help in his fundamental researches, apart from Marsden's short visit, was his faithful assistant William Kay, who by his kindness and helpfulness through the years had endeared himself to everyone in the laboratory. Rutherford was greeted in Montreal with that genuine friendliness and hospitality for twhich Canada is famous. Rutherford was himself soon drawn into military projects, especially concerning the development of methods of sound tracing of sub- marines, and teaching the students was almost entirely left to Evans, Makower and me. Rutherford was now on his own resources with at first no one at hand with whom to discuss his particular line of investigation.
Rutherford was successful in obtaining the position thanks to a strong recommendation from Thomson and he sailed for Canada in September 1898, working almost to the last day before sailing writing up for publication papers describing his work to date. Rutherford with consummate skill mastered the radium family also. Rutherford wrote 'How does the electron know when it leaves one orbit which of the others it is going to settle in?' Rutherford's father built a small wooden house for his wife and there Ernest was bornand hada.healthyoutdoorupbringing,the climatebeing equable,lat. Rutherford's first remark was certainly very pertinent, touching on a point which was to become a central issue in the subsequent pro- longed discussions.
Rutherford, although he obtained prizes in most subjects and ultimately became head of the school, was by no means a bookworm or what is colloquially termed a ' swot'. Rutherford, on his return from a visit started before the war with the British Association to Australia and New Zealand showed great interest in the results and with characteristic selflessness and consideration wrote to ask if I 'minded' if he followed up the work and in the next four years, in such intervals as he could spare from his activities in connexion with experiments on the development of Asdic for the navy, he repeated and extended the experiments with extraordinary results.
Rutherford, who with usual vigour took part in many of the discus- sions, was of course a central figure at the Solvay meeting in 1933, which was to be the last he had the opportunity to attend before his death in 1937 ended a life-work of a richness with few counterparts in the history of physical science. Rydberg and Ritz showed that the frequencies in the series spectra of many elements can be expressed by a formula of the type = fk00 (n00 ) fk0 (n0 ), (14) where n0 and n00 are two whole numbers and fk0 and fk00 are two functions belonging to a series of functions characteristic of the element. Rydberg assigned these lines to hydrogen because of the close analogy with the series of lines represented by the Balmer formula.
Rydberg pointed out that the spectra of many elements contain series of lines whose wave lengths are given approximately by the formula R 1 =A , n (n + )2 where A and are constants having different values for the various series, while R is a universal constant equal to the constant in the spectrum of hydrogen. Rydberg showed, however, in his earliest work, that certain relations existed between the constants in the various series of the spectrum of one and the same element. Rydbergs view has therefore been generally accepted by physicists up to the present moment. S T R U C T U R E O F T H E A T O M 33 where n is the principal quantum number and k the subordinate quantum number.
S T R U C T U R E O F T H E A T O M 35 that corresponds to the normal state of the hydrogen atom with quantum symbol 11. S T R U C T U R E O F T H E A T O M 39 X-ray spectra and atomic constitution In the discussion of the conceptions of atomic structure we have hitherto placed the emphasis on the formation of the atom by successive capture of electrons. S T R U C T U R E O F T H E A T O M 43 ticularly concerning the question of how far, with these results, it is possible to speak of an explanation, in the ordinary sense of the word. SERIES SPECTRA AND THE CAPTURE OF ELECTRONS BY ATOMS We attack the problem of atomic constitution by asking the question: How may an atom be formed by the successive capture and binding of the electrons one by one in the field of force surrounding the nucleus?
SEWamphembafimems- Here, this postulate does, indeed, represent the idea of the NE- sion for the complementary nature of the space-tiine descri tion and t l ' causalit .At the same time, individuality ofThe particles which, transcending the space-time description, meets the claim of causality. SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 81 The discussions at the meeting were initiated by a brilliant exposition by Lorentz of the argumentation based on classical ideas leading to the principle of equipartition of energy between the various degrees of freedom of a physical system, including not only the motion of its constituent material particles but also the normal modes of vibration of the electromagnetic field associated with the electric charge of the particles.
SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 91 This situation was soon beautifully illustrated by Mott's explanation of the marked deviations from Rutherford's famous scattering formula, in the case of collisions between identical particles, like oc-particles and helium nuclei, or protons and hydrogen nuclei. START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON THE EFFECT OF ELECTRIC AND MAGNETIC FIELDS ONSPECTRAL LINES THE LONDON, EDINBURGH, AND DUBLIN PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE AND JOURNAL OF SCIENCE. START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON THE QUANTUM THEORY OF RADIATION AND THE STRUCTURE OF THE ATOM THE LONDON, EDINBURGH,AND DUBLIN PHILOSOPHICAL MAGAZINE AND JOURNAL OF SCIENCE.
START: FULL LICENSE THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK To protect the Project GutenbergTM mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work (or any other work associated in any way with the phrase Project Gutenberg), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project GutenbergTM License available with this file or online at www.gutenberg.org/license. Schredinger, important for the further development, has Indeed, the two formulations of the interaction problem been made by Born in his investigation of the problem of might be said to be complementary 1n the same sense as collisions between atoms and free electric particles.
Schrodinger has arrived at a similar result in an attempt to account for the great difference between the S terms and the terms in the P and D series of the alkali spectra. Schrodinger has expressed The energy of each state is connected with the corre- the hope that the development of the wave theog will sponding period of vibration according to the general eventualff remove the irrational element expressedby quantum relation (1). Schrodinger's visit to Copenhagen in the fall of 1926 afforded a special opportunity for lively exchange of views.
Schuster was head of a good school of physics and an excellent laboratory with facilities for research, he also offered to provide the finance for a readership in mathematical physics which was subsequently held in turn by Bateman, Darwin and Bohr all of whom, particularly Niels Bohr, were later to contribute so effectively to Ruther- ford's field of work. Schwarzschilds method possesses on the other hand the essential advantage of being applicable to certain classes of systems in which the displacements of the particles may be represented by trigonometric series of the type (31), but for which the equations of motion cannot be solved by separation of variables in any fixed set of coordinates.
Science in spite of all its revolutions is conservative and a new conception of this sort, although a great and far-reaching simplification, takes time to come into general understanding; a generation has to die and the new generation learn to think in the new concepts. Science is truly international. Secondly the way in which the motions of the electrons within the group reflect the independence both of the processes by which the group can be formed and by which it can be reorganized by change of position of the different electrons in the atom after a disturbance by external forces. Serious o/'Atoms aml Jlolee~des.
Several years earlier Max Planck in Berlin had made a theoretical estimate of the fundamental unit of electric charge with which Rutherford's value agreed closely, thus indicating the further likelihood of the truth of the premises made by Planck. Severthe- less, the political situation w8s fraught with ominous forebodings. She maintained a good standard of use of language in the house. She was the family treasurer but in spite of the demands on her purse the family on one occasion raised ?10 towards the Indian famine fund. She would assemble the family on Sundays for music and religious exercise, she playing the piano and the father the violin, followed by spelling bees and geography lessons using a map to illustrate world events as recorded in the newspapers as they came to hand.
Shortly after Kramers' arrival in Copenhagen came two promising young men, Oscar Klein from Sweden and Svein Rosseland from Norway, who already in 1920 made their names known by pointing to the so-called collisions of the second kind, in which atoms are transferred by electron bombardment from a higher to a lower stationary state with gain of velocity for the electron. Shortly after the above view on the origin of arc spectra was brought forward, however, Fowler found (1914) that an empirical expression for the spark spectrum lines could be established which corresponds exactly to Rydberg's laws with the single difference that the constant K is replaced by a constant four times as large.
Shortly after this result had been attained, Schwarzschild and Epstein (1916) simultaneously succeeded, by means of similar considerations, in accounting for the characteristic changes that the hydrogen lines undergo in 2 8 1922 N . Shortly afterwards, Heitler and London succeeded on the same lines in explaining the binding mechanism in the hydrogen molecule and thereby opened the way for ^8 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE the understanding of homopolar chemical bonds. Shortly afterwards, an advance of fundamental significance was achieved by Heisenberg, who in 1925 introduced a most ingenious formalism, in which all use of orbital pictures beyond the general asymptotic correspondence was avoided.
Shortly before the following meeting in 1933 we were all shocked by the news of the untimely death of Ehrenfest, of whose inspiring personality Langevin spoke in moving terms when we were again assembled. Should a sufficiently large foreign body some day traverse our solar system, we might among other effects expect that from that day the length of the year would be different from its present value. Similar considerations apply therefore as in the case of the Stark effect, and we must expect that the energy in the stationary states will again be given by formula (19), if we substitute for the value given in expression (24).
Similar considerations may possibly apply also to the recent remarkable experiments of Franck and Hertz on ionization in mercury vapour These experiments show strikingly that an electron does not lose energy by collision with a mercury atom if its energy is smaller than a certain value corresponding to 4.9 volts, but as soon as the energy is equal to this value the electron has a great probability of losing all its energy by impact with the atom. Similar paradoxes were raised by the discovery by Compton (1924) of the change in wave-length accompanying the scattering of X-rays by electrons.
Similar use of quantum theory was suggested in the report by Langevin on his successful theory of the variation of the magnetic properties of matter with temperature, in which he made special reference to the idea of the magneton, intro- duced by Weiss to explain the remarkable numerical relations between the strength of the elementary magnetic moments of atoms deduced from the analysis of his measurements. Similarly when awarded the Nobel prize in 1908 he made handsome gifts to his mother and the rest of the family.)
Similarly, In the Schrodinger wave equation these difficulties the superposition of two characteristic solutions are avoided by replacing the classical expression corresponds to a continuous vibrating distribution of the Hamiltonian by a differential operator by of electrical charge, which on classical electro- means of the relation dynamics would give rise to an emission of radiation, h 8 illustrating instructively the consequences of the p=v- 121:59 - - () quantum postulate and the correspondence require- ment regarding the transition process between two where p denotes a generalized component of stationary states formulated in matrix mechanics.
Similarly, Schrodinger was able to explain essential features of the dispersion of radiation by atoms by representing the charge and current distribution of the atom perturbed by the incident radiation as the effect of a superposition of the proper functions defining the manifold of possible stationary states of the unperturbed system. Similarly, it will be seen that the effect on the spectrum of a perturbed hydrogen atom, which 1 ) Compare Note on page 112.
Similarly, suppose that in the presence of a magnetic field the motion of the electron in the stationary states can be calculated in the ordinary way; then, according to a general theorem of Larmor, the orbit of the electron in the field will be a superposition of an elliptical orbit and a uniform rotation round an axis through the nucleus parallel to the magnetic force. Similarly, the spread of the frequencies of the harmonic components in the limited wave-train in Fig. Simple considerations led to the following condition of stability. Simple considerations like this, however, apply only to spectral lines corresponding to transitions from one and the same stationary state.
Since (82) has exactly the same form as relation (66), and since in the stationary states we have I = nh and I = nh, we are therefore from a consideration, quite analogous to that given in 2 on page 114, led to the conclusion, that, in the presence of the magnetic field, only two types of transitions between stationary states are possible. Since E, however, is determined by the Is only we get from (4 ), besides the evident result that the Is are constant during the motion, that the ws will vary linearly with the time and can be represented by wk = k t + k , k = E , Ik (k = 1, .
Since a measure for the latitude Dq in location of the particle in the plane of the diaphragm is given by the radius a of the hole, and since u approx= (1/sa), we get, using (1), just Dp approx= uP approx= (h/Dq), in accordance with the indeterminacy relation (3).
Since a superposed rotation as that in question will not influence the shape of the orbit of the electron or its position relative to the axis, it follows from (61) that the value of E in the stationary states of the atom will not be affected by the presence of the magnetic field, and that consequently the effect of this field on the additional energy of the system will simply consist in the addition of a term given by M = e n2 h H = n2 vH h. 2mc 2 (87) This result was also to be expected from a simple consideration of the mechanical effect produced on the motion by a slow and uniform establishment of the magnetic field (compare page 159).
Since at the moment of measure ment the direct interaction between the objects may have ceased, it might thus appear that both q1 and p1 were to be regarded as well-defined physical attributes of the isolated object and that, therefore, as has been argued, the quantum-mechanical representation of a state should not offer an adequate means of a complete description of physical reality. Since both and cos are numerically smaller than one, we obtain therefore at once from (74) a lower and an upper limit for the possible variations of the energy in the stationary states, due to the field. Since during the transformation n1 and n2 will keep their values, we get therefore in the final state I = h 2m + (n m) = h(n + m).
Since for a conditionally periodic system which allows of separation in the variables q1 , . Since further a circular orbit, perpendicular to the direction of the electric force, will not undergo secular perturbations during a slow establishment of the field, and therefore must be included among the stationary states of the perturbed system, we get for the total energy of the atom in the presence of the field 2 2 N 2 e4 m 3h2 nn + F, (77) E = En + nvF h = n2 h2 8 2 N em where n is an entire number which in the present case may be taken positive as well as negative. Since his day his particular science has become more a matter of direct and sponsored development by governments.
Since in any event Fowler does not seem to consider such evidence as conclusive it is to be hoped that these experiments will be continued. Since in one and the same arrangement several different individual be observed, the recourse to statistics in quantum effects will in general physics therefore is in principle unavoidable. Since in such a case the motion corresponding to each degree of freedom in general will be periodic, just as for a system of one degree of freedom, we may obviously expect that the condition (10) is here replaced by a set of s conditions: Z Ik = pk dqk = nk h, (k = 1, .
Since in the case under consideration the system possesses three degrees of freedom, the equations which determine the secular perturbations of the orbit of the electron will correspond to the equations of motion of a system of two degrees of freedom, and it will therefore not be possible to give a general treatment of the problem of the stationary states. Since in this case C is equal to zero for any different from 1, we shall expect that for this system only such transitions are possible in which n alters by one unit. Since is equal to the total energy of the system we get from (4) and (5) If we compare (6) with the relation (1), we see that the connexion with ordinary mechanics in the region of slow vibration, mentioned in the former section, is satisfied.
Since it is impossible, of course, in a single lecture to attempt a survey of the immense and many-sided life-work of Ernest Rutherford and its far- reaching consequences, confine myself to periods of which I I shall have personal recollections and to developments I have followed at close hand. Since it is impossible, of course, in a smgle lecture to attempt a survey of the immens and many-sided life-work of Ernest Rutherford and its far reaching consequences, I shall confine myself to periods of which I have personal recollections and to developments I have followed at close hand." Since moreover, in complete analogy to the conditions (22), the stationary states of the perturbed system are characterised by I = nh, Ik = nk h, (k = 1, .
Since n0 n00 is a whole number, we see that the first part of this expression, i.e. Since now on ordinary electrodynamics the intensities of the radiations corresponding to different values of are directly determined from the coefficients C|tau in (14), we must therefore expect that for large values of n these coefficients will on the quantum theory determine the probability of spontaneous transition from a given stationary state for which n = n0 to a neighbouring state for which n = n00 = n0 .
Since now, as shown above, such a cycle will remain unaltered during a slow and uniform increase of the intensity of the external field if the effect of the external forces is calculated by means of ordinary mechanics, we are therefore, with reference to the principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states, led to the conclusion that it is possible by direct application of ordinary mechanics, not only to follow the secular perturbations of the orbit in the stationary states corresponding to a constant external field, but also to calculate the variation in the energy of the system in the stationary states which results from a slow and uniform change in the intensity of this field.
Since now, at any moment, the quantities 10 , 20 , 30 , 10 , 20 , 30 differ from the corresponding orbital constants 1 , 2 , 3 , 1 , 2 , 3 only by small terms proportional to the intensity of the magnetic field, we see therefore that, with neglect of small quantities of the same order as the variation in the orbital constants within a single period, the secular perturbations of the shape and position of the orbit of the electron will again be given by the equations (46), if in the present case is taken equal to the sum of the mean value E of the potential energy e of the electron relative to the external e electric forces and the mean value M of the quantity (vA), c both taken over an osculating orbit corresponding to some moment during the revolution and expressed as functions of 1 , 2 , 3 , 1 , 2 , 3 .1 ) The latter mean value, however, is easily seen to allow of a simple interpretation.
Since the Is, as given by (21), depend on the constants 1 , . Since the change in the energy of the atom due to the external field of force depends upon the form and position of its orbit, the fixation of the energy of the atom in the presence of such a field naturally involves a closer determination of the orbit of the perturbed system.
Since the conditions (55), with neglect of small quantities proportional to the square of the intensities of the external forces, allow to determine the additional energy of the system due to the presence of the external field, we see therefore that the effect of this field on the spectrum of the undisturbed system, if the secular perturbations are conditionally periodic, will consist in a splitting up of each spectral line in a number of components, in analogy with the effect of a perturbing field on the spectrum of a periodic system of two degrees of freedom.
Since the different components, into which a given hydrogen line is split up in the electric field, correspond to transitions between pairs of states which for all components have very nearly the same values for the total energy, these states may therefore be expected to be of approximately equal occurrence in the luminous gas. Since the energy values for different states with the same value of n but different values of k differ a little from each other, we get for each hydrogen line corresponding to definite values of n' and n'' in the Balmer formula a number of different transition processes, for which the frequencies of the emitted radiation as calculated by the second postulate are not exactly the same.
Since the expression on the right side is seen to be a small quantity of the same order as 1 , it follows therefore from(85) in the first place that the secular variations of 2 , 3 , 2 , 3 during the increase of the fields will, just as in the case considered in 2 (see page 91), be given by a set of equations of the same form as t (46), where is replaced by , and where again 1 may be considered as a constant. Since the external forces possess axial symmetry, the problem of the stationary states might be treated by means of the procedure indicated in 2 on page 107.
Since the frequency of the emitted radiation in the regions where n and k are large is again given by the asymptotic formula (23), we at once deduce from the correspondence principle that the only transitions which can take place are those for which the values of k differ by unity. Since the interruption of Moseley's fundamental researches by his untimely death, the study of these spectra has been continued in a most admirable way by Prof. Siegbahn in Lund.
Since the motions of the system in these states will differ relatively very little from each other we may calculate the difference of the energy by means of (29), and we get therefore, by means of (1), for the frequency of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two states s = s X 1X 1 0 k (n0k n00k ), (30) (E E 00 ) = k (Ik0 Ik00 ) = h h 1 1 which is seen to be a direct generalisation of the expression (13) in 2. Since the particle has a double positive charge it follows immediately that a neutral helium atom contains two electrons.
Since the result is to be independent of the nature of the body we are justified in expecting an agreement with experiment, even though very special assumptions are made about the forces acting upon the electrons of the hypothetical substance. Since the value of differs widely from unity for all series of lines in the spectra of the heavier elements, it is to be expected that the electric effect should be very small, or undetectable for such elements.
Since the values for the frequency in two states corresponding to different values of n in (10) in general are different, we see at once that we cannot expect a simple connection between the frequency calculated by (1) of the radiation corresponding to a transition between two stationary states and the motions of the system in these states, except in the limit where n is very large, and where the ratio between the frequencies of the motion in successive stationary states differs very little from unity. Since the variation in the perturbing field during a single period will only be a small quantity of the same order as 2 , we see in the first place that the secular variations of the constants 2 , .
Since these conditions constitute an inherent element of the description of any phenomenon to which the term "physical reality" can be properly attached, we see that the argumentation of the mentioned authors does not justify their conclusion that quantum-mechanical description is essentially incomplete. Since these conditions constitute fore, in such arrangements, have to consider an an inherent element of the description of any eventual exchange of energy between the object phenomenon to which the term *physical reality and these clock-like mechanisms.
Since these two fields together form a perturbing field possessing axial symmetry, it follows therefore that the secular perturbations, when the relativity modifications are taken into account, will be conditionally periodic and that the problem of the stationary states may be treated by means of the method mentioned in 2 on page 107.
Since this area is equal to 3 /2m, we get consequently from (84) e3 H. (86) M = 2cm From the equations (46) it follows therefore that the effect of a homogeneous magnetic field, which acts upon a hydrogen atom which at the same time is exposed to an external electric field possessing axial symmetry round an axis through the nucleus parallel to the magnetic force, will consist in a superposition of a uniform rotation of the orbit round the axis with a frequency equal to vH = e 1 M = H 2 3 4mc on the secular perturbations which would take place in the absence of the magnetic field. Since this relation has the same form as (29), we see consequently that by putting I1 , .
Since we are entirely ignorant as regards the mechanism of radiation, we must be prepared, however, to find that the above treatment will allow to determine the motion in the stationary states, only with an approximation which looks apart from small quantities of the same order as the ratio between the radiation forces in ordinary electrodynamics and the main forces on the electron due to the attraction from the nucleus.1 ) Now it is 1 ) Compare Part I, page 6.
Since, as we have seen, the constant that appears in the spectrum sent out during the binding of an electron to a helium nucleus is exactly equal to K, it becomes evident that spark spectra are due to the ionized atom, and that their emission corresponds to the last step but one in the formation of the neutral atom by the successive capture and binding of electrons.
Since, for a Keplerian motion, the major axis of the orbit depends on the total energy only while the minor axis is proportional to the angular momentum, it will be seen from (64) that the presence of a small external field imposes the restriction on the motion of the atom in the stationary states, that the minor axis of the orbit of the electron must be equal to an entire multiple of the nth part of the major axis, which was given by 2n in (41). Since, however, according to the quantum-mechanical formalism, the specification of the state of an isolated particle cannot involve both a well-defined connection with the time scale and an accurate fixation of the energy, it might thus appear as if this formalism did not offer the means of an adequate description.
Since, however, any reading of the scale, in whatever way performed, will involve an uncontrollable change in the momentum of the diaphragm, there will always be, in conformity with the indeterminacy principle, a reciprocal relationship between our knowledge of the position of the slit and the accuracy of the momentum control. Since, however, as an immediate consequence of the stability of the stationary states that is claimed by the postulates, we must suppose that the interaction between two atoms during a collision cannot be completely described with the aid of the laws of classical mechanics, such a comparison as this cannot be carried further on the basis of such considerations as those just outlined.
Since, however, the opinion has been expressed from various sides that this attitude would appear to involve a mysticism incompatible with the true spirit of science, I am very glad to use the present opportunity of addressing this assembly of scientists working in quite different fields but united in their striving to find a common ground for our knowledge, to come back to this question, and above all to try to clear up the misunderstandings which have arisen. Since, in contrast to our ideas, he supposed all electrons in the principal groups of the atom to move in equivalent orbits, he is compelled to assume that these groups are different in the different atoms, corresponding to different possible types of orbital shapes.
Since, moreover, as stressed by Einstein, the space-time coordination of different observers never implies reversal of what may be termed the causal sequence of events, relativity theory has not only widened the scope but also strengthened the foundation of the deterministic account, characteristic of the imposing edifice generally referred to as classical physics.
Since, now, as indicated by the broken arrows, the momentum transferred to the first diaphragm ought to be different if the electron was assumed to pass through the upper or the lower slit in the second diaphragm, Einstein suggested that a control of the momentum transfer would permit a closer analysis of the phenomenon and, in particular, to decide through which of the two slits the electron had passed before arriving at the plate. So far as the combination principle is concerned its explanation is obvious. So far as the last question is concerned, such considerations offer a direct support for the consequences of the correspondence principle.
So far as the principles of the quantum theory are concerned, the point which has been emphasized hitherto is the radical departure of these principles from our usual conceptions of mechanical and electrodynamical phenomena. So far as we are at all in a position to follow the behavior of atoms in organisms under similar conditions of investigation as in the fundamental experiments of atomic physics, of course we can only meet with the laws disclosed by these experiments which, in spite of their feature of individuality, foreign to classical mechanics, can give us clearly no immediate understanding of the so-called holistic or finalistic characteristics of the activities of life.
So far we have considered systems which contain only one electron, but the general validity of the assumptions A and B seems strongly supported by the fact that they offer a simple interpretation of the general principle of combination of spectral lines (see IV. So far, in made by Born in his investigation of the problem the wave equation, time and space as well as of collisions between atoms and free electric energy and momentum are utilised in a purely particles. So far, in the wave equation, time and spgge of definition and observation.
So for argon we may expect a configuration in which the ten innermost electrons move in orbits of the same type as in the neon atom while the last eight electrons will form a configuration of four 31 orbits and four 32 orbits, whose symmetrical properties must be regarded as closely corresponding to the configuration of 2quanta orbits in the neon atom. So the primary objects of the discussions within the Manchester far, group were the immediate consequences of the discovery of the atomic nucleus. Soc., 1924 methods agcribe a particular phase to each station- (Supplement), or Zeits.
Soc., mass and charge, are endowed with a magnetic A, 117, 610; 1928) has been able successfully moment due to an angular momentum determined to attack the problem of the magnetic electron by the quantum of action. Soc., phase value to the group as a whole, in the same A, vol. Sodium vapour, in addition to the absorption corresponding to the lines of the principal series, exhibits a selective absorption in a continuous spectral region beginning at the limit of this series and extending into the ultraviolet. Some most interesting cases of such new effects were im- mediately demonstrated in the Cavendish by Feather, who obtained cloud-chamber pictures showing nitrogen nuclei disintegrating under a-particle release by neutron bombardment.
Some of Rutherford's utterances have led to the misunderstanding that he did not fully appreciate the value of mathematical formalisms for the progress of physical science. Some of the lines under consideration have been observed earlier in star spectra, and have been ascribed to hydrogen not only on account of the close numerical relation with the lines of the Balmer series, but also on account of the fact that the lines observed, together with the lines of the Balmer series, constitutes a spectrum which shows a marked analogy with the spectra of the alkali metals. Some of us, who were called to take part in the war projects, often thought of Rutherford and modestly strove to act in the way which we imagined he himself would have taken.
Some of us, who were called to take part in the war projects, often thought of Rutherford" and modestly strove to act in the way which we imagined he himself would have taken. Some procedure of this kind, which means a radical departure from the ordinary theory of electrodynamics, is obviously necessary in the quantum theory in order to avoid dissipation of energy in the stationary states. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. Sommerfeld has now shown that this calculation actually agrees with measurements of the fine structure. Sommerfeld in connection with this theory also pointed out that formula (11) could be applied to the Xray spectra.
Sommerfeld's theory has proved itself able to account not only for the fine structure of the hydrogen lines, but also for that of the lines in the helium spark spectrum. Sommerfelds theory leads therefore to a direct explanation of the fact, that the hydrogen lines, when observed by instruments of high dispersive power, are split up in a number of components situated closely to each other; and, by means of formula (68) in connection with relation (1), it was actually found possible, within the limits of experimental errors, to account for the frequencies of the components of this so called fine structure of the hydrogen lines.
Soon after this question was settled the existence of a similar general relationship between the properties of the elements was brought to light by Moseley's well-known investigations on the characteristic X-ray spectra of the elements, which was made possible by Laue's discovery of the interference of X-rays in crystals and the investigations of W. H. and W. L. Bragg on this subject. Soon after, a great step forward was achieved by the dispersion theory of Kramers, developed on correspondence lines, which established a direct connection with Einstein's general probability rules for processes of absorption and spontaneous and induced emission.
Soon afterwards Dirac, whom Heisenberg had told about his new ideas on a visit to Cambridge, gave another brilliant example of a young physicist able to create by himself the mathematical tools suited for his work. Soon thereafter I returned to Denmark and have since had no connection with any secret, military or industrial, project in the field of atomic enerqy. Soon they discovered thorium-X produced from thorium and intermediate between thorium and the emanation and with a half-value period of 4 days independent of age. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project GutenbergTM electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERGTM concept and trademark. Spectra emitted from systems containing more than one electron.
Spectra emitted from systems containing only one electron. Spectrum of ttydroyn.~General evidence indicates that an atom of" hydrogen consists simply of a single,electron rotating round a positive nucleus of charge e*. Starting from a distinctly different point of view Kemble has recently suggested a similar model for the helium atom.
Starting from a most illuminating exposition of the gradual development of the fundamental principles in the theories of classical physics and their relation to the problem of physical reality, Einstein here argues that the quantum-mechanical description is to be considered merely as a means of accounting for the average behaviour of a large number of atomic systems and his attitude to the belief that it should offer an exhaustive description of the individual phenomena is expressed in the following words: "To believe this is logically possible without contradiction; but it is so very contrary to my scientific instinct that I cannot forego the search for a more complete conception."
Starting from the above result, that the electrical centre moves in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the external field, the periodicity of the perturbations may also be proved in the following way, by means of a simple consideration of the variation of the angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus, due to the effect of the external electric force. Statical positions of equilibrium for the electrons are in fact not possible in cases in which the, forces between the electrons and the nucleus even approximately obey the laws that hold for the attractions and repulsions between electrical charges. Still I shall try, by making use only pletely foreign to the classical theories and symbolized of simple considerations and without going into any by Plancks quantum of action.
Still in view of the insufficiency of the classical mode of description in atomic physics, such a definition of the inanimate would hardly any longer be adequate. Still it is evident that a situation permitting unambiguous use of accepted judicial rules leaves no room for the free display of charity. Still the fact that we cannot immediately apply Plancks theory to our problem is not as serious as it might seem to be, for in assuming Plancks theory we have manifestly acknowledged the inadequacy of the ordinary electrodynamics and have definitely parted with the coherent group of ideas on which the latter theory is based.
Still the problem, which most instructively emphasized the necessity in quantum physics of the sharp distinction between objects and measur- ing instruments, remained for several years a matter of lively contro- versy, especially in philosophical circles. Still, Fowler was not yet convinced and stressed the spurious manner in which spectra may appear in gas mixtures. Still, I could not agree with the trend of his remarks as reported by Ehrenfest. Still, Rutherford found time to continue his own pioneer work, which already before the end of the war was to give such great results, and showed the same warm interest as ever in the endeavours of his collaborators.
Still, Rutherford's never-failing optimism exerted a most encourag- ing influence on his surroundings, and I remember how at the time of a serious set-back in the war, Rutherford quoted the old utterance ascribed to Napoleon about the impossibility of fighting the British because they were too stupid to understand when they had lost. Still, after the development of classical mechanics in the Renaissance and its subsequent fruitful application to the atomistic interpretation of the laws of thermodynamics, the upholding of order in the compli- cated structure and functions of the organisms was often thought to present unsurmountable difficulties.
Still, as regards the much-debated question concerning the compari- son between organisms and machines, it is essential to keep in mind that organic life is a manifestation of nature's resources far beyond those used for the construction of machines. Still, at present, it Seems difficult to judge the adequacy of such a hypothesis for the self-energy problem since, in the region concerned, the situation appears in other respects essentially changed by further consequences of the hole theory. Still, at that time, some progress could be made by utilizing classical physical pictures for the classification of stationary states based on Planck's original assumptions the regarding energy states of a harmonic oscillator.
Still, at the time of the conference it had become more and more evident that even such limited use of mechanical pictures as was so far retained in the correspondence approach could not be upheld when dealing with more complicated problems. Still, by closer examination it was soon to become evident that Jeans' argument could not be upheld. Still, example in such respects can be effective only if isolation is abandoned and free discussion of cultural and social developments is permitted across all boundaries.
Still, feeling most acutely my lack of special knowledge and experience in radiative diagnosis and therapy, it is with no small hesitation that I venture to address this assembly of prominent radiologists, and I shall confine myself to some general remarks pointing to the multifarious fields of knowledge relevant for the progress and success of your great task in the service of mankind. Still, for a Keplerian motion of the electron around the nucleus, even a comparatively weak external electric field will through secular perturbations produce considerable changes in the shape and By the study of particular cases in which the orientation of the orbit.
Still, from the standpoint of modern chemical kinetics, no such departure is to be expected, and thorough investigations into the exchange of energy and entropy accompanying the metabolism and movements of the organisms have in fact never disclosed any restriction of thermodynamical principles. Still, it was from the beginning obvious that wave mechanics did not point to any less radical modification of the classical physical approach than the statistical description envisaged by the correspondence principle. Still, not only will such relationship between nations obviously be required for genuine cooperation on progress of civilization, but even a common declaration of adherence to such a course would create a most favorable background for con- certed efforts to promote universal security.
Still, notwithstanding the radical revision of the foundation for the unambiguous application of SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 83 elementary physical concepts, which was here needed, it was an encouragement to all that the firmness of the building ground was just in those years so strikingly illustrated by new triumphs for the classical approach in dealing with the properties of rarefied gases and the use of statistical fluctuations for the counting of atoms. Still, relativity theory, which has endowed classical physics with unprece dented unity and scope, has just through its elucidation of the conditions for the unambiguous use of elementary physical concepts allowed a concise formulation of the principle of causality along most general lines.
Still, such phenomena represent equally important parts of the accessible evidence regarding the objects and are therefore adequately referred to as complementary. Still, such views, probably originating from many sides, were at that time lively discussed within the Man chester group and evidence in their support was rapidly forthcoming, especially through chemical investigations by Hevesy as well as by Russell." Still, such views, probably originating from many sides, were at that time lively discussed within the Manchester group, and evidence in their support was rapidly forthcoming, especially through chemical investigations by Hevesy as well as by Russell.
Still, the account of the spectral distribution of cavity radiation in thermal equilibrium with the enclosing walls presented unsuspected difficulties, especially brought out by Rayleigh's masterly analysis. Still, the avoidance of an epi- stemological paradox in such respect was achieved by the recognition of the relationship between reflection symmetry in space and time and the symmetries between particles and antiparticles. Still, the carving of a crocodile on the outer wall caused comments which could only be appeased by reference to special Russian folklore about animal life. Still, the decisive point is that in neither case does the appropriate widening of our conceptual framework imply any appeal to the observing subject, which would hinder unambiguous communication of experience.
Still, the essentially statistical character of the inter- pretation of physical experience by wave pictures was not only evident from Born's successful treatment of collision problems, but the symbolic character of the whole conception appeared perhaps most strikingly in the necessity of replacing ordinary three-dimensional space coordination by a representation of the state of a system contain- ing several particles as a wave function in a configuration space with as many coordinates as the total number of degrees of freedom of the system. Still, the exploration of the world of atoms was, as we have seen, to reveal inherent limitations in the mode of description em- bodied in common language developed for the orientation in our surroundings and the account of events of daily life.
Still, the fact that the atomic nuclei are very much heavier than the electrons allows the fixation of the relative positions of the atoms with- in molecular structures to an extent sufficient to give concrete signific- ance to the structural formulae which have proved so fruitful in chemi- cal research. Still, the paradoxical aspects of quantum theory were in no way ameliorated, but even emphasised, by the apparent contradiction between the exigencies of the general superposition principle of the wave description and the feature of individuality of the elementary atomic processes.
Still, the phenomenon of the superconductivity of certain metals at extremely low temperatures, on the discovery of which Kamerlingh Onnes reported, presented a great puzzle, which many years later would first find its explanation. Still, the recognition of an analogy in the purely logical character of the problems which present themselves in so widely separated fields of human interest does in no way imply acceptance in atomic physics of any mysticism foreign to the true spirit of science, but on the contrary it gives us an incitation to examine whether the straightforward solution of the un expected paradoxes met with in the application of our simplest concepts to atomic phenomena might not help us to clarify conceptual difficulties in other domains of experience.
Still, the recognition of the reciprocal latitude for the fixation of any two canonically conjugate variables, expressed in the principle of in- determinacy formulated by Heisenberg in 1927, was a decisive step towards the elucidation of the measuring problem in quantum mechanics. Still, the recognition that the fineness of organization and regu lation mechanisms of living beings goes even so far beyond any previous expectation does in no way enable us to account for the peculiar character istics of life. Still, the stability question presented in all such considerations intricate diffi- culties stimulating the search for a firmer hold.
Still, the theory failed in accounting for the supercon- ductivity, to the understanding of which a clue has been found only in the last years by the development of refined methods for treating interactions in many-body systems. Still, the unambiguous demonstration of the relation between the Rutherford atomic model and the spectral evidence was for a time hindered by a peculiar circumstance. Still, the velocity dependence of the electron mass, predicted by the new mechanics of Einstein, removes the degeneracy of the motion and introduces a second period in its harmonic components through a continual slow progression of the aphelion of the Keplerian orbit.
Still, this circumstance is irrele vant for the study of simple atomic phenomena where, in the specification of the experimental conditions, we may to a very high degree of approximation disregard the molecular constitution of the measuring instru ments. Still, this situation was not too surprising, since an essential limitation of classical physical theories had already been revealed by Planck's discovery in 1900 of the universal quantum of action which, especially in thehands of Einstein, had found such promising application in the account of specific heats and photochemical reactions.
Still, this situation was not too surprismg, since an essential limitation of classical physical theories had already been revealed by Planck 's discovery in 1900 of the universal quantum of action which, especially in the hands of Einstein, had found such promising application in the account of specific heats and photochemical reactions. Stressing the difficulties of keeping the organisms alive under conditions which aim at a full atomic account I therefore suggested that the very existence of life might be taken as a basic fact in biology in the same sense as the quantum of action has to be regarded in atomic physics as a fundamental element irreducible to classical physical concepts.
Strictly speaking, every reference to dynamical con cepts implies a classical mechanical analysis of physical evidence which ultimately rests on the recording of space-time coincidences.
Strictly speaking, the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics and electrodynamics merely offers rules of calculation for the deduction of expectations about observa- tions obtained under well-defined experimental conditions specified by classical physical concepts.The exhaustive character of this descrip- tion depends not only on the freedom, offered by the formalism, of choosing these conditions in any conceivable manner, but equally on THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 61 the fact that the very definition of the phenomena under consideration for their completion implies an element of irreversibility in the obser- vational process emphasizing the fundamentally irreversible character of the concept of observation itself.
Strutt discovered another equally surprising result, that this yellow resonance radiation seemed to consist of both components of the first line of the principal series, even when the incident light consisted of only one component of the second line of the principal series. Strutt found that the resonance radiation consisted apparently only to a small extent of light of the same frequency as the incident light, while the greater part consisted of the familiar yellow line. Studies of thermal radiative equilibrium, based on electromagnetic theory, were, however, to disclose a feature of wholeness in atomic processes, irreconcilable with the ideas of classical physics.
Subsequently Sommerfeld3 ) himself and Debye4 ) have on the same lines indicated an interpretation of the effect of a magnetic field on the hydrogen spectrum which, although no complete explanation of the observations was obtained, undoubtedly represents an important step towards a detailed understanding of this phenomenon. Subsequently these conditions have been proved by Ehrenfest and especially by Burgers1 ) to be invariant for slow mechanical transformations. Subsequently, by calculating the ratio of the emissive to the absorptive power, Lorentz really obtained an expression for the law of temperature radiation which for long wave lengths agrees remarkably well with experimental facts.
Substituting in formulae (7) and (8) the expression for K given in (12), we obtain for the energy, major axis and frequency of revolution in the nth state of the unperturbed atom the expressions 1 2 2 e4 m , En = Wn = 2 n h2 h2 1 4 2 e4 m n = 3 . Substituting the values of Wn , n and an given by (17) in formula (19) we get 3h2 F 1 2 2 e4 m + nk . Such a calculation gives 10.5 volts for the ionization potential instead of 4.9 volts. Such a case we will refer to in the following as a case of degeneration. Such a configuration of groups of 2quanta orbits in the carbon atom seems capable of furnishing a suitable foundation for explaining the structure of organic compounds.
Such a descriptive theory is sharply differentiated from one where an attempt is made to explain the specific properties of the elements with the aid of general laws applying to the interaction between the particles in each atom. Such a formulation was proposed (1913) by the present lecturer in the form of two postulates, which may be stated as follows: (I). Such a grouping of the electrons in the atom has formed a prominent part of all more detailed views of atomic structure ever since J. J. Thomsons famous attempt to explain the periodic system on the basis of an investigation of the stability of various electronic configurations. Such a motion may be obtained for instance by imagining the system placed in a small homogeneous magnetic field.
Such a process would be of a type entirely different from the transitions between the stationary states connected with the emission of the lithium spectrum, and would, contrary to these, not exhibit a correspondence with a harmonic component in the motion of the atom. Such a relationship must be considered as a necessary consequence of the theory of atomic structure developed above, and is expressed in the table (Fig. Such a stand would, more than anything else, appeal to people all over the world, fighting for fundamental human rights, and would greatly strengthen the moral position of all supporters of genuine international co- operation.
Such a view is probably not very different from the coupling theory by which Voigt was able to account formally for the details of the anomalous Zeeman effect. Such a view of the complexity of the levels, as further consideration shows, just accounts for the manner in which the energy difference of the two levels varies with the atomic number. Such advances implied the clarification of several significant points, such as the Pauli principle of mutual exclusion of equivalent quantum states, and the discovery of the intrinsic electron spin involving a departure from central symmetry in the states of electron binding necessary to account for the anomalous Zeeman effect on the basis of the Rutherford atomic model. Such an apparatus is sketched in Fig.
Such an arrangement is frequently described as a distribution of the electrons in rings. Such an assumption, however, seems inconsistent with an interpretation of the definite character of the physical and chemical properties of the elements, and stands in marked contradiction with the points of view about the stability of the atoms which form the basis of the view of atomic structure here proposed. Such an atom (neutron) would have novel properties ... it would be impossible to contain it in a closed vessel. Such an attempt has been made in the present paper, and it will be shown that it seems possible to throw some light on the outstanding difficulties by trying to trace the analogy between the quantum theory and the ordinary theory of radiation as closely as possible.
Such an opinion would, however, seem to be due to a misapprehension of the situation. Such an orbit will be called a 1quantum orbit, and in general an orbit for which the principal quantum number has a given value n will be called an nquantum orbit. Such argumentation does of course not imply that, in atomic physics, ' we have no more to learn as regards experimental evidence and the' mathematical tools appropriate to its comprehension. Such attempts are very alluring because the simplicity of the spectral laws and the exceptional accuracy with which they apply appear to promise that the correct explanation will be very simple and will give valuable information about the properties of matter.
Such caution in the choice of terminology is especially important in the exploration of a new field of experience, where information cannot be comprehended in the familiar frame which in classical physics found such unrestricted applicability. Such configurations, however, are apparently necessary in order to explain many characteristic properties of the atoms. Such consideration combined with a natural desire to marry Mary Newton of Christchurch, to whom he had been affianced before he left New Zealand, were probably the main factors in his decision to apply for a position which had become vacant at McGill University in Canada.
Such considerations at once suggested the pro spect of basing the account of the physical and chemical properties of every element on a single integer, now generally known as the atomic number, expressing the nuclear charge as a multiple of the elementary wnit of electricity." Such considerations at once suggested the prospect of basing the account of the physical and chemical properties of every element on a single integer, now generally known as the atomic number, expressing the nuclear charge as a multiple of the elementary unit of electricity. Such considerations involve no lack of appreciation of the inspiration which the great creations of art offer us by pointing to features of harmonious wholeness in our position. Such considerations led to a theory of formation of molecules.
Such considerations may offer a simple explanation of the fact that in contrast with the helium spectrum the lithium spectrum contains only one system of series of the type (11). Such considerations presented indeed the first indication of the so-called correspondence principle expressing the aim of representing the essentially statistical account of quantum physics as a rational generalization of the classical physical description. Such considerations were used to explain the general appearance of the Rydberg constant in the spectra of the elements, and were also applied in discussing possible configurations of the electrons in the atoms suggested by the observed chemical properties.
Such difficulties would, of course, also prevent any direct inquiry into the close inter- actions of the fundamental constituents of matter, whose number has THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 63 been so largely increased by recent discoveries, and in the exploration of their relationships we must therefore be prepared for a new approach transcending the scope of present quantum theory. Such empirical evidence exhibits a novel type of relationship, which has no analogue in classical physics and which may conveniently be termed complementarity in order to stressthat in the contrasting phenomena we have to do with equally essential aspects of all well-defined knowledge about the objects. Such measurements have recently been made by Rau for the lines in the ordinary helium spectrum.
Such measures should in some suit- able manner grant access to information, of any kind desired, about conditions and developments in the various countries and would thereby allo~v the partners to form proper judgment of the actual situation that is con- fronting them. Such measures will obviously demand sacrifices of accustomed national prerogatives and abolition of barriers hitherto considered necessary to safeguard national interests, but now standing in the way of common action against unprecedented dangers. Such methods also seem suitable to account for the remarkable evidence recently obtained about the quantized character of the supercurrents. Such methods were first suggested by W. Wilson in 1915, who applied them to electron hydrogen atom.
Such of his other fellow pupils as I have spoken to lit up with pleasure in recounting their recollections of him and none showed jealousy or envy. Such phrases, which may serve to remind of the apparent paradoxes in quantum theory, are at the same time apt to cause confusion, since words like "phenomena" and "observations," just as "attributes" and "measurements," are used in a way hardly compatible with common language and practical definition.
Such ponderings and related calculations were generally made in the quiet of his study at home but out of it emerged his inspiration of a nuclear atom with the positive charge of electricity in a very small nucleus at the centre and electrons in outer planetary orbits somewhat similar in relative spatial dimensions to a solar system in miniature-a brave conception in view of its reversal of the ideas current at the time in which the positive electricity of atoms was considered as dispersed in a relatively large sphere. Such scepticism atomic phenomena. Such sentiments were als behmd Rutherford's efforts to support Kapitza's work after his return to Russia in 1934, and were from Kapitza 's side most movingly expressed in a letter which I received from him after Rutherford's death."
Such sentiments were also behind Rutherford's efforts to support Kapitza's work after his return to Russia in 1934, and were from Kapitza's side most movingly expressed in a letter which I received from him after Rutherford's death. Such series spectra, which are generally referred to as spark spectra, could now be recognized as originating from excited ions in contrast to the so-called arc spectra due to excited neutral atoms. Such substances, of the existence of which the first evidence was found in the work of Soddy and other investigators on the chemical properties of the radioactive elements, are called isotopes, with reference to the classification of the elements according to ordinary physical and chemical properties.
Such views, in which Rutherford took a vivid interest, were the theme for the last course of lectures which on Rutherford's invitation I gave in 1936 in the Cavendish Laboratory. Such views, m which Rutherford took a vivid interest, were the theme for the last course of lectures which on Rutherford's invitation I gave in 1936 in the Cavendish Laboratory." Sum- marizing, it may be stressed that, far from involving any arbitrary renunciation of the ideal of causality, the wider frame of comple- mentarity directly expresses our position as regards the account of fundamental properties of matter presupposed in classical physical description, but outside its scope.
Suppose that in the stationary states one of the electrons moves at a distance from the nucleus which is large compared with the distance of the other electrons. Surely, as long as for practical or epistemological reasons one speaks of life, such teleological terms will be used in complementing the terminology of molecular biology. Surely, both style and language were essentially improved by Ruther- ford's help and advice, and I have often had occasion to think how right he was in objecting to the rather complicated presentation and especially to the many repetitions caused by reference to previous litera- ture.
Surely, in a situation like this, where it has been difficult to reach mutual understanding not only between philosophers and physicists but even between physicists of different schools, the difficulties have their root not seldom in the preference for a certain use of language suggesting itself from the different lines of approach. Surely, respect and goodwill between nations cannot endure mitllout free access to information about all aspects of life in every country. Surely, this circumstance should prove helpful for the strengthening of that spirit which now is incumbent if mankind shall be able jointly to reap the fruits which the progress of science offers.
Surely, we all recognised that, in the above example, the situation presents no analogue to the application of statistics in dealing with complicated mechanical systems, but rather recalled the background for Einstein's own early conclusions about the unidirection of individual radiation effects which contrasts so strongly with a simple wave picture. Swinne has already referred to a connection of this kind between the periodic system and the Xray spectra in connection with Kossels theory. Systems corresponding to more complicated configurations will be discussed on p. 24. Systems of one degree of freedom.
Systems of the kind considered in this paper, in which the forces between the particles vary inversely as the square or" the distance, are discussed in relation to Planck's theory by J. W. Nicholson t. In a series of papers this author has shown that it seems to be possible to account for lines of hitherto unknown origin in the spectra of the stellar nebulae and that of the solar corona, by assuming ~he presence in these bodies of certain hy I hypothetical elements of exactly indicated constitution. T ' ' learl to in- theories, as complementag but exclusjye features of the dicate the impossibility of a causal space-time descrip- 56 THE ATOMIC THEORY - DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 57 tion of the light phenomena. T h e permanent State of an Atomic System.
TEE PROBLEM OF THE ELEMENTARY wave groups small in comparison to the * size * of PARTIOLES. THE PROBLEM OF THE ELEMENTARY by Kennard. THE QUANTUM POSTULATE AND THE RECENT DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC BY NIELS BOHR. THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 39 Such identification involved a fixation of the Rydberg constant in terms of the charge e and mass m of the electron and Planck's constant, according to the formula _ which was found to agree with the empirical value within the accuracy of the available measurements of m and h. , Although this agreement offered an indication of the scope for the use of mechanical models in picturing stationary states, of course the difficulties involved in any combination of quantum ideas and the principles of ordinary mechanics remained.
THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 49 On the one hand, these experiments, carried out with mercury vapour, gave most conspicuous evidence of the stepwise energy transfer in atomic processes; on the other hand, the value of theioniza- tion energy of mercury atoms apparently indicated by the experi- ments was less than half of that to be expected from the inter- pretation of the mercury spectrum. THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 51 In Rutherford's famous papers in the Philosophical Magazine, 1919, containing the account of his fundamental discovery of controlled nuclear disintegrations, he refers to the visit to Manchester, in November, 1918, of his old collaborator Ernest Marsden, who at the Armistice had got leave from military service in France.
THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 59 Indeed, the extensive use of abstract mathematical methods to cope with the rapidly increasing evidence about atomic phenomena brought the whole observational problem more and more to the fore- ground. THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 65 When, in the summer of 1928, Gamow joined us in Copenhagen, he was investigating the penetration of charged particles into nuclei by a reverse tunnel effect. THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE. THE STRUCTURE OF THE ATOM AND THE PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL PROPERTIES OF THE ELEMENTS. Taking a line through the nucleus perpendicular to the plane of the orbit as z-axis, we get from the calculations on page 59 z = const.
Taking for q1 and q2 the parameters of the two paraboloids of revolution, which pass through the instantaneous position of the electron and which have their foci at the nucleus and their axes parallel to the direction of the field, and for q3 the angular distance between the plane through the electron and the axis of the system and a fixed plane through this axis, the momenta p1 , p2 , p3 will during the motion depend on the corresponding qs only, and the stationary states will be fixed by three conditions of the type (22). Taking for the time interval in this formula the period of the undisturbed motion, we get Nk = k , where 1 , .
Taking the length of the radius-vector from the centre of the field to the particle as q1 , and the angular distance of this radius-vector from a fixed line in the plane of the orbit as q2 , we get at once from (4), since E does not contain q2 , the well known result that during the motion the angular momentum p2 is constant and that the radial motion, given by the variations of p1 and q1 with the time, will be exactly the same as for a system of one degree of freedom.
That an atomic system can, and can only, exist permanently in a certain series of states corresponding to a discontinuous series of values for its energy, and that consequently any change of the energy of the system, including emission and absorption of electromagnetic radiation, must take place by a complete transition between two such states. That an elementary system containing rotating electrons will not emit energy radiation in the continuous way assumed in ordinary electrodynamics, but that radiation is only emitted during the passing of the system between a certain number of stationary states.
That in general there corresponds more than one curve to each type of orbit nk is due to a complication in the spectra which would lead us too far afield to enter into here, and may be attributed to the deviation from the previously described simple type of motion of the electron arising from the interaction of the different electrons within the same group. That it has not yet wise, the peculiar stability of atomic structures been possible to trace the limit in organs other is clearly exhibited in the characteristic properties than the eye, depends solely upon the simplicity of such highly complicated chemical compounds of light as compared with other physical as chlorophyll or hamoglobin, which play fundaphenomena.
That mechanics, however, cannot generally be applied directly to determine the motion of a periodic system under influence of an increasing external field, is just what we should expect according to the singular position of degenerate systems as regards mechanical transformations. That such recording involves essentially irrever- sible physical and chemical processes does not introduce any special intricacy, but rather stresses the element of irreversibility implied in the very concept of observation. That the dynamical equilibrium of the system in the stationary states is governed by the ordinary laws of mechanics, while these laws do not hold for the passing of the system between the different stationary states.
That the orbit of the electron in general need not be circular is also very strongly indicated by the observation that the hydrogen lines emitted from positive rays under certain conditions are partly polarized without the presence of a strong external field ( loc. That the phenomenon retains its essential feature, however, is a typical consequence of the correspondence principle. That the radiation absorbed or emitted during a transition between two stationary states is unifrequentic and possesses a frequency , given by the relation E 0 E 00 = h, (1) where h is Plancks constant and where E 0 and E 00 are the values of the energy in the two states under consideration.
That the radiation emitted during the passing of the system between two stationary states is homogeneous; and that only in the region of slow vibrations does the frequency approach that to be expected on ordinary electrodynamics, while in general the frequency is determined by the relation , where is the total amount of energy emitted and Plancks constant. The ,bore considerations may f u r t h e r account for the result of some experiments of R. W. Wood t on absorption of light by :sodium vapour. The Connection between the Sciences is with great pleasure, although not without hesitation, that I have Itaccepted the kind invitation to speak at the opening of this Inter- national Congress of Pharmaceutic Sciences.
The D states correspond to the variable term in the diffuse series, which like the sharp series is emitted by transitions to the first state in the P row, and finally the B states correspond to the variable term in the Bergmann series (fundamental series), in which transitions take place to the first state in the D row. The Effect of a Magnetic Field. The Effect of an Electric Field. The Emission of a Line Spectrum. The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United States. The Foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the United States. The Foundations EIN or federal tax identification number is 64-6221541.
The Foundations business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. The Genesis of Quantum Mechanics 1 sixtieth birthday of Werner Heisenberg gives me a welcome JL opportunity to recount some of my memories from the time when he worked with us in Copenhagen and with such genius created the foundations of quantum mechanics. The Gottingen discussions were then continued in the Institute as well as on long walks, and I gained an even stronger impression of Heisen- b erg's rare gifts. The Introductory Survey originally appeared in Danish in the Year Book of Copen- hagen University for 1929 together with a Danish trans lation of the first three articles, the Addendum being first included in the German edition of all four articles published 'by Jul.
The President also dwelled on the unique way in which Lorentz had assumed the leading of all previous Solvay meetings and on the vigour with which he had con- tinued his brilliant scientific researches until his last days. The Principal series of doublets corresponds to a transition from a pair of the states III. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (the Foundation or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project GutenbergTM electronic works.
The Rutherford Memorial Lecture 1958- Reminiscences of the Founder of Nuclear Science and of Some Developments Based on his Work TT t has been a pleasure for me to accept the invitation from The Physical JL Society to contribute to the series of Rutherford Memorial Lectures in which, through the years, several of Rutherford's closest collabora- tors have commented on his fundamental scientific achievements and communicated reminiscences about his great human personality.
The Solvay Meetings and the Development of Quantum Physics series of conferences originally convened, just fifty years ago, The Ernest Solvay and continued undef at the far-sighted initiative of the auspices of the International Institute of Physics founded by him, have been unique occasions for physicists to discuss the fundamental problems which were at the centre of interest at the different periods, and have thereby in many ways stimulated modern development of physical science.
The Solvay meeting in 1930 was the last occasion where, in common discussions with Einstein, we could benefit from the stimulating and mediating influence of Ehrenfest, but shortly before his deeply deplored death in 1933 he told me that Einstein was far from satisfied and with his usual acuteness had discerned new aspects of the situation which strengthened his critical attitude. The Unity of Human Knowledge question alluded to in the title for this address is as old as The but has acquired renewed attention in our days civilization itself, with the increasing specialization of studies and social activities. The X-ray lines may thus be considered as giving evidence of stages in a process by which the atom undergoes a reorganization after a disturbance in its interior.
The [orce on the electron, when at a great distance apart from the nucleus and the electrons previously bound, will be very. The a-particles apparently had a definite range, practically independent of voltage, of 8 cm in air. The a-particles were something much more massive. The a-priori probability of the different states of the system may consequently for all combinations of n1 and n2 be assumed to be proportional to n2 . The above interpretation of the formul (11) and (12) has recently obtained very strong support by Fowlers work on series of enhanced lines on spark spectra. The above simple calculations deal only with the two extreme cases, and we may expect to find a number of stationary states corresponding to orbits of smaller excentricity.
The absence of inter- mediate excited states was assumed to be due to the full occupation of all shells in the ground state of the atom. The absolute values for the voltages could not be determined very accurately with the experimental arrangement, but apparently nearly 30 volts was necessary to produce the lines corresponding to high values of . The absorption by nonexcited atoms in the latter case is connected with those lines in the series spectrum which correspond to combinations of the various spectral terms with the largest of these terms. The absorption spectrum of sodium vapour, for example, exhibits lines corresponding only to the principal series, which as mentioned in the description of the figure corresponds with transitions to the state of minimum energy.
The abstract character of the formalisms concerned is indeed, on closer examination, as typical of relativity theory as it is of quantum mechanics, and it is in this-respect purely a matter of tradition if the former theory is considered as a completion of classical physics rather than as a first fundamental step in the thoroughgoing revision of our conceptual means of comparing observations, which the modern development of physics has forced upon us. The account consists in the last analysis in the establishment of a series of unambiguous connections between the behavior of the object and the measuring rods and clocks which define the system of reference involved in the space-time description.
The achievement of the great goal which places the gravest responsibility upon our generation will, of course, demand the good will of all peoples and, in this respect, important services may be rendered by scientists in every country, not only in their capacity as advisers to the responsible governments but also by bringing about a proper public appreciation of the situation, just as it is to be hoped that the intimate bonds between scientists of various nations, created by years of close intercourse, may prove to be of essential help. The active deposit was found to be soluble in certain solutions but not in others and could be dissipated by heat.
The actual experi- mental proof of this was given first by Joliot Curie and his co-workers in France and independently by workers in the United States to whom Bohr, as a visiting lecturer, had given the news of the antecedent developments by Meitner and Frisch. The acuteness of the dilemma is stressed by the fact that the interference effects offer our only means of defining the concepts of frequency and wavelength entering into the very expressions for the energy and momentum of the photon. The agreement between the theoretical and observed values is inside the uncertainty due to experimental errors in the constants entering in tile expression for the theoretical value. The agreement in question is quantitative as well as qualitative.
The agreement is as good as could be expected, considering the uncertainty in the experimental determination of the constants e, m and h. The agreement between our calculations and the classical electrodynamics is, therefore, fully as good as we are justified in expecting. The aim of our argumentation is to emphasize that all experience, whether in science, philosophy or art, which may be helpful to man- kind, must be capable of being communicated by human means of expression, and it is on this basis that we shall approach the question of unity of knowledge.
The aim of the present account and considerations is to point to the unique opportunities for furthering international understanding and cooperation that have been created by the revolution of human resources brought about by the advance of science, and to stress that despite previous disappointments these. The aims of the physicist, however, are in part purely intellectual; he strives to understand the Universe on account of the intellectual pleasure derived from the pursuit, but he is upheld in it by the knowledge that the study of natures secrets is the ordained method by which the greatest good and happiness shall finally come to the human race.
The analogy to the demand of taking all essential features of the experimental arrangement into account in quantum physics is, however, reflected by the different verbs we attach to the pronoun. The and are associated with the possible transitions between utilization of this principle for the interpretation of stationary states. The answer to this question evidently calls for a closer examination of the conditions for the unambiguous use of the concepts of classical physics in the analysis of atomic phenomena. The apparatus then had to be rebuilt owing to a change of laboratory and, as is well known, production of high-speed a-particles by proton impact on lithium nuclei was obtained in March, 1932. The apparatus we used in those days would appear very primitive to-day.
The apparent capriciousness of the combination principle, which I mentioned, consists in the fact that under the usual conditions of excitation not all the lines belonging to possible combinations of the terms of the sodium spectrum appear, but only those indicated in the figure by arrows. The apparent contradiction in fact discloses only an essential inadequacy of the customary viewpoint of natural philosophy for a rational account of physical phenomena of the type with which we are concerned in quantum mechanics. The apparent contrast in the utilisation statior states of an atom meeting all require- of the energy concept in the two theories is just ments.
The apparent difficulty, in this description, which Einstein felt so acutely, is the fact that, if in the experiment the electron is recorded at one point A of the plate, then it is out of the question of ever observing an effect of this electron at another point (B), although the laws of ordinary wave propagation offer no room for a correlation between two such events. The apparently incompatible sorts of information about the behavior of the object under examination which we get by different experimental arrangements can clearly not be brought into connection with each other in the usual way, but may, as equally essential for an exhaustive account of all experience, be regarded as "complementary" to each other.
The appearance of these doublets is undoubtedly due to the small deviations from central symmetry of the field of force originating from the inner system in consequence of which the general type of motion of the external electron will possess a more complicated character than that of a simple central motion. The application of physical methods and viewpoints has led to great progress in many other fields of biology. The application of this method depends on the possibility of separating the variables in the equations of motion. The applications of the correspondence principle that have so far been described have been purely qualitative in character.
The appreciation of this point, it is true, underlies the proposals to regulate co-operation on the development of the new resources, brought before the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission, but just the difficulty ex- perienced in obtaining agreement under present world collditions woulcl suggest the necessity of centering the issue more directly on the problem of openness. The appropriate coordinates are polar ones about an axis parallel to the field. The approximate agreement mentioned above with Whiddingtons measurements for the energy necessary to produce the characteristic radiation indicates very strongly that the spectrum is due to a displacement of a single electron, and not to a whole ring.
The approximate masses of these new particles in terms of the electron mass are (see Blackett, The Listener, 18 March 1954) 207; 263; 273; 966 and even greater than the proton (1840), i.e. The argu- ments presented suggest that every initiative from any side towards the removal of obstacles for free mutual information and intercourse would be of the greatest importance in breaking the present deadlock and encouraging others to take steps in the same di- rection. The argument is similar to that by which transitions between two distinctive states of a Planck oscillator for which the values of n in (1) differ by more than unity are excluded.
The argument is simply that by the word "experiment" we refer to a situation where we can tell others what we have done and what we have learned and that, therefore, the account of the experimental arrangement and of the results of the observations must be expressed in unambiguous language with suitable application of the terminology of classical physics. The argumentation in this paper is based on a criterion which the authors express in the following sentence: "If, without in any way disturbing a system, we can predict with certainty (i.e., with probability equal to unity) the value of a physical quantity, then there exists an element of physical reality corresponding to this physical quantity." The argumentation of the article was summarised.
The arrangement of the states in horizontal rows corresponds to the ordinary arrangement of the spectral terms in the spectroscopic tables. The arrows in the figure indicate the transitions giving those lines of the sodium spectrum which appear under the usual conditions of excitation. The arrows represent the transition processes that correspond to the red and green hydrogen lines, and the frequency of which is given by means of the Balmer formula when we put n'' = 2 and n' = 3 and 4 respectively.
The asserted impossibility of arguments play in biology reminds one of a physical or chemical explanation of the the endeavours, formulated in the correspondfunction peculiar to life would in this sense be ence argument, to take the quantum of action analogous to the insufficiency of the mechanical into account in a rational manner in atomic analysis for tho understanding of the stability physics. The assumption just mentioned that the angular momentum round the axis of the field cannot be equal to zero is deduced from considerations of systems for which the motion corresponding to special combinations of the ns in (22) would become physically impossible due to some singularity in its character.
The assumption of such a polarization is a matter of particular interest for the theory of radiation emission. The assumption of the existence of such states seems necessary in order to account for the line-spectra of systems containing more than one electron (p. 11); it is also suggested by the theory of ~icholson mentioned on p. 6, to which we shall return in a moment. The atmosphere at McGill was more in tune with Rutherford's colonial personality than was the more traditional Cambridge at the time. The atoms of these elements are supposed to consist simply of a ring of a few electrons surrounding a positive nucleus of negligibly small dimensions.
The author discussed the problem of how the organism is able to economize with its calcium to such a remarkable extent during the growth of the skeleton. The author in particular discussed the con- trol of the DNA duplication and the role which the structure of the chromo- somes may play in this process as well as in the stability of the genetic material. The awespoken- answer to one query was 'he is doing fine, but he has made a bloomer in one question'. The axis of rotation is parallel with the direction of the magnetic force, while the frequency of revolution is given by the formula = eH , 4mc (24) where H is the intensity of the field and c the velocity of light.
The basis for the complementary mode of description in biology is not connected with the problems of controlling the interaction between object and measuring tool, already taken into account in chemical kinetics, but with the practically inexhaustible complexity of the organism. The big electric machines, cyclotrons and the like, are being used to produce high-energy particles to probe these structures. The binding in question is indeed even stronger than for a 2-quantum orbit in the hydrogen atom, and is therefore more than twice as strong as in the circular 33 orbit which is situated completely outside the inner region, and for which the strength of the binding differs but little from that for a 3-quantum orbit in hydrogen.
The black dots represent the stationary states corresponding to the various series of spectral terms, shown on the right by the letters S, P , D and B. The box, of which a section is shown in order to exhibit its interior, is suspended in a spring-balance and is furnished with a pointer to read its position on a scale fixed to the balance support. The calculation can be made considerably simpler than in the former paper by an application of Hamiltons principle. The calculation given above of the energy in the stationary states of the hydrogen system, where each state is characterized by a single quantum number, rests upon the assumption that the orbit of the electron in the atom is simply periodic.
The calculations of these authors rest upon the fact, that it is possible, also in the presence of a magnetic field, to write the equations of motion of the electron in the canonical Hamiltonian form given by (4), if the momenta p1 , p2 , p3 which are conjugated to the positional coordinates of the electron q1 , q2 , q3 , are defined in a suitable way. The calculations show that, in the stationary state corresponding to a given value of the number n, the size of the orbit will be inversely proportional to the nuclear charge, while the work necessary to remove an electron will be directly proportional to the square of the nuclear charge.
The careful recording of the reports and of the subsequent discus- sions at each of these meetings will in the future be a most valuable source of information for students of the history of science wishing to gain an impression of the grappling with the new problems raised in the beginning of our century. The case of the helium spectrum, however, is quite different since here the inner system contains only one electron the motion of which in the absence of the external electron is simple periodic provided the small changes due to the variation in the mass of the electron with its velocity are neglected.
The change in the energy of the stationary states, therefore, will not be given by an expression as simple as the second term in formula (19), but will be a function of k, which is different for different fields. The character of the motion will therefore, in general, be completely determined by the conditions (22), and especially the value for the total energy, which according to (17) is equal to 1 , will be fixed by them. The characteristic decrease in valency which we meet in copper, shown by the appearance of the singly charged cuprous ions, indicates the same tendency towards the completion of a symmetrical configuration of electrons that we found in the marked electronegative character of an element like fluorine.
The characteristic new feature in quantum physics is merely the restricted divisibility of the phenomena, which for unambiguous description demands a specification of all significant parts of the experimental arrangement. The characteristic result of these experiments is the great difference between the effect of a weak and a strong magnetic field. The chief advance in this field is due to the wellknown experiments of Franck and Hertz. The ciples underlying this attack have quantum postulate we must therefore be pre] even made it possible to draw conclusions regard- to meet with a renunciation as to visualisation in ing the properties of atomic nuclei.
The circumstance that such recordings, like the spot produced on a photographic plate by the impact of an electron, involve essentially irreversible processes presents no special difficulty for the interpretation of the experiments, but rather LIGHT AND LIFE REVISITED 25 stresses the irreversibilitywhich is implied in principle in the very concept of observation. The circumstance that the frequency can be written as a difference between two funet. The circumstance that this value is small comparedwith 1-2 4 Niels Bohr the mesonrestenergy is, in fact,consistent with the assumptionunderlying present meson theory, that with high approximation the masses of charged and neutral mesons are equal.
The circumstance that we have to do with implications of scientific studies, undertaken with no other aim than to widen the borders of our knowledge and to deepen our understanding of that nature of which we ourselves are a part, should present the best background imaginable for meeting the exigencies of the situation in the proper spirit and, in this respect, it is perhaps not unimportant that the very philosophical lesson impressed upon us by the development of physics in our generation is especially suited to further common human understanding.
The circumstance, however, photoelectric and Compton effect, finds its adequate that in interpreting observations use has always expression jusb in the light quantum idea put to be made of theoretical notions, entails that for forward by Einstein. The classical character of this work is in no way impeded by attempts of Borelli himself and his followers also to explain nervous action and glandular secretion by means of primitive mechanical models, the obvious arbitrariness and coarseness of which soon gave rise to general criticism, still remembered by the semi ironical name of 'iatro-physicists' attached to the Borellian school.
The classification mentioned above was based on measurements of the spectra of the heaviest elements, and the results in their complete form, which were principally due to independent work of Coster and Wentzel, may be represented by the diagram in fig. The classification of the X-ray spectra, to the achievement of which the above-mentioned work of Sommerfeld and Kossel has contributed materially, has recently made it possible, by means of a closer examination of the manner in which the terms occurring in the X-ray spectra vary with the atomic number, to obtain a very direct test of a number of the theoretical 40 1 9 2 2 N . The classification of these types can be based very simply on a decomposition of the motion into its harmonic components.
The close relationship between psychical experience and physical and chemical processes in our body is evidenced not least by the appli- cation of medicaments in mental disease. The closer comparison, however, brought new information pertaining to the shell structure of the electronic constitution of the atoms. The colonists were deliberately selected as a cross-section of the communities from which they originated-large farmers, small-holders, labourers, artisans and members of the professions but the area on which they settled was at first hemmed in by almost impassable mountains and they became more of a community of small-holders. The com- by Born's plete equivalence of the different methods was also established already in 1926 by the transformation theory of Dirac and Jordan.
The com- nature this conception means a complete re- plementary nature of the description, however, nunciation as regards a time description. The common starting point was the recognition that, notwithstanding the great help which the use of mechanical pictures had temporarily offered for the classification of stationary states of atoms in isolation or exposed to constant external forces, it was clear, as already mentioned, that a fundamentally new departure was needed.
The compatibility of such methods with the principle of adiabatic invariance of stationary states, which Ehrenfest had formulated in 1914 in order to meet thermodynamical require- ments, was secured by the circumstance that the action integrals to which the quantum numbers refer according to classical mechanics are not modified by a variation of the external field slow compared with the characteristic periods of the system. The complementary mode of description does indeed not involve any arbitrary renunciation of customary demands of explanation but, on the contrary, aims at an appropriate dialectic expression for the actual con ditions of analysis and synthesis in atomic physics.
The complementary nature of the description, As already mentioned, the means for a general con- however, appears particularbr in that the use of observa- sistent utilization of the cIass1caI concepts in the quantum fls concerning the behaviour ofparticles in the atom MW theor have been r ransformation rpsts on the pos?ibility of neglecting, during the procgess t r o 'rac and o the aid of which Heisen- 80 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 81 ber has formul ' ' ' ). The complete spectrum is obtained by combining the numbers and as well as the functions in every possible way. The complete spectrum is obtained by combining the numbers and, as well as the functions,in every possible way.
The components below are polarized perpendicular to the field, while those above are polarized parallel to the field. The conception of atomic structure which will form the basis of all the following remarks is the socalled nuclear atom according to which an atom is assumed to consist of a nucleus surrounded by a number of electrons whose distances from one another and from the nucleus are very large compared to the dimensions of the particles themselves. The conclusion drawn in the paper cited is strongly supported by the fact that h),drogen, in the experiments on positive rays of Sir J. J. Thomson~ is the only element which never occurs with a positive charge corresponding to the loss of more than one olectron (comp.
The condition that such a coincidence should occur in this region where the stationary states differ but little from one another proves to be that the constant in the Balmer formula can be expressed by means of the relation where e and m are respectively the charge and mass of the electron, while h is Planck's constant. The conductivity produced in air by some compounds of thorium and particularly the oxide thoria was found to vary in a very erratic manner.
The conference of 1927, the theme of which was Electrons and Photons, was opened by reports by Lawrence Bragg and Arthur Compton about the rich new experimental evidence regarding scatter- ing of high-frequency radiation by electrons exhibiting widely different when firmly bound in crystalline structures of heavy substances features and when practically free in atoms of light gases. The conference was opened by a report by Sommerfeld on magnet- ism and spectroscopy, in which he in particular discussed the knowledge of the angular momenta and magnetic moments, which had been derived from the investigations of the electron constitution of atoms, resulting in the explanation of the periodic table.
The conference, entitled Atoms and Electrons, was opened by Lorentz with a lucid survey of the principles of classical electron theory, which in particular had offered the explanation of essential features of the Zeeman effect, pointing so directly to electron motions in the atom as the origin of spectra. The configuration in which the greatest amount o{' energy is emitted is, as before, the one in which = 1. The configuration of the inner electrons is assumed to be very nearly the same in each series, while that of the outer electron changes from state to state approximately in the same way as that of the electron in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom.
The configuration of the subgroups does not exhibit a tetrahedral symmetry like the groups of 2quanta orbits in carbon, but a symmetry which, so far as the relative orientation of the normals to the planes of the orbits is concerned, may be described as trigonal. The connection between this treatment and that given above has been discussed in detail by Epstein.1 ) As mentioned above the conditions (22), first established from analogy with systems of one degree of freedom, have subsequently been proved generally to be mechanically invariant for any slow transformation for which the system remains conditionally periodic.
The consideration in this memorandum may appear utopian, and the difficulties of surveying complica- tions of nonconventional procedures may explain the hesitations of governments in demonstrating adher- ence to the course of full mutual openness. The consideration of collisions of the second kind proved particularly important for the elucidation of the radiative properties of stellar atmospheres, to which at that time Saha, working in Cambridge with Fowler, made such fundamental contributions. The consideration of the small changes in the motion due to this variation has been of great importance in the development of Sommerfelds theory which originated in the explanation of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines.
The consideration of the spectr%however, gives~ as far as I can see, no indication of the existence of stationary states in which all the electrons are arranged in a ring and which correspond to greater values for the total energy emitted than the one we above have assmned to be the permanent state. The considerations employed here can be traced back directly to those discussed at the beginning of this lecture in connexion with Bjerrum's theory of the influence of molecular rotation on the infrared absorption lines of gases. The considerations in my address referred to were inspired by the recent completion of a logically consistent formalism of quantum mechanics. The considerations of Einstein * A .
The considerations which I have presented on previous occasions (A,I,, B) on questions of psychology in connection with problems of atomic physics followed indeed two essentially different aims. The constants C1 ,..., s depend only on the s in the equations (18) or, what is the same, on the Is, while the constants c1 ,..., s depend on the s as well as on the s. In general the quantities 1 1 + . The contemplation of such more or less practical arrangements and their more or less fictitious use proved most instructive in directing attention to essential features of the problems. The continuous hydrogen spectrum. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work.
The correcM +m tion is exceedingly small for elements of large atomic weight, but for hydrogen it is, from the point of view of spectrum analysis, very considerable. The correction due to the finite value of is very small for elements of high atomic weight, but is comparatively large for hydrogen. The correction is very small; the difference in passing from hydrogen to an element of high atomic weight being only 0.05 per cent.
The correspondence principle While this development of the theory of spectra was based on the working out of formal methods for the fixation of stationary states, the present lecturer succeeded shortly afterwards in throwing light on the theory from a new viewpoint, by pursuing further the characteristic connexion between the quantum theory and classical electrodynamics already traced out in the hydrogen spectrum. The correspondence principle also provides a basis for understanding the experimental evidence about the appearance of the emission lines of the Xray spectra due to transitions between the stationary states corresponding to these energy levels.
The correspondence principle suggests at once that these facts are connected with the characteristic polarization observed in the Stark effect. The course of the curves illustrates how the deviation from the hydrogen terms may be expected to decrease with increasing values of k, corresponding to states, where the minimum distance between the electron in its revolution and the nucleus constantly increases. The creation of new barriers, restricting the free flow of information between countries, further in- creased distrust and anxiety.
The critical point is here the recognition that any attempt to analyse, in the customary way of classical physics, the 'individ uality' of atomic processes, as conditioned by the quantum of action, will be frustrated by the unavoidable interaction between the atomic objects concerned and the measuring instruments indispensable for that purpose. The crucial point is that, even though we all have to do with phenomena outside the grasp of a deterministic pic- we must employ common language, suitably refined torial description, by the terminology of classical physics, to communicate what we have done and what we have learned by putting questions to nature in the form of experiments.
The culties, can be harmonised with the assumption hindrances met with on this path originate above that the proton is endowed with a moment of all in the fact that, so to say, every word in the momentum of the same magnitude as that of the language refers to our ordi: perception. The curves show the form of the orbits described in the stationary states by the last electron captured in the potassium atom, and they can be considered as stages in the process whereby the 19th electron is bound after the 18 previous electrons have already been bound in their normal orbits.
The deci- sive point, however, is that in this connection there is no question of reverting to a mode of description which fulfils to a higher degree the accustomed demands regarding pictorial representation of the relation- ship between cause and effect. The decisive advance in the application of the quantum theory to spectra, however, is due to Sommerfeld and his followers. The decisive point as regards time measurements in quantum theory is now completely analogous to the argument concerning measurements of positions outlined above. The decisive point is to recognize that the description of the experimental arrangement and the recording of observations must be given in plain language, suitably refined by the usual physical terminology.
The decomposition of the perturbed motion into harmonic components consequently will again be represented by a formula of the type (22), in which only such terms appear for which is equal to +1 or 1. The defined in order not to give rise to an appreciable reciprocal uncertainty which always affects the uncertainty in the value of the momentum of the values of these quantities is, as wil be clear from particle Jte! The definite and unchangeable properties of the elements demand that the state of an atom cannot undergo permanent changes due to external actions. The demonstration of the helicity of the neutrino was indeed anew to raise the old question of a distinction between right and left in the description of natural phenomena.
The departure of our considerations from the ordinary ideas of natural philosophy becomes particularly evident, however, when we observe that the occurrence of two spectral lines, corresponding to combinations of the same spectral term with two other different terms, implies that the nature of the radiation sent out from the atom is not determined only by the motion of the atom at the-beginning of the radiation process, but also depends on the state to which the atom is transferred by the process. The dependence on the reference system, in relativity theory, of all readings of scales and clocks may even be compared with the essentially uncontrollable exchange of momentum or energy between the .
The description of atomic phenomena has in these respects a perfectly objective character, in the sense that no explicit reference is made to any individual observer and that therefore, with proper regard to relativistic exigencies, no ambiguity is involved in the communication of informa- tion. The description of ordinary experience presupposes the unrestricted divisibility of the course of the phenomena in space and time and the linking of all steps in an unbroken chain in terms of cause and effect. The development in the former century of the ancient ideas of the atomic constitution of matter stimulated the search for a closer con- nection between chemistry and physics.
The development of technology has now reached a stage where the facilities for communication have pro- vided the means for making all mankind a cooperating unit, and where at the same time fatal consequences to civilization may ensue unless international diver- gencies are held issues to be settled by consultation based on free access to all relevant information. The development of the group will therefore proceed to the point where we may say there is equilibrium between the two kinds of orbits. The development of the groups in the atom with increasing atomic number, which governs the chemical properties of the elements shows itself in the Xray spectra mainly in the appearance of new lines.
The diameters of these orbits are considerably larger than those of the l1 orbits of the first two electrons; on the other hand the outermost part of the eccentric 21 orbits will extend some distance beyond these circular 22 orbits. The difference in frequency of the components of the lines of the Sharp series and the Diffuse series is the same for every line. The difference in the energy of the two stationary states corresponding to may therefore be expected to vary approximately as.
The differences between the spectral terms of the lithium spectrum and the corresponding spectral terms of hydrogen are very small for the variable term of the principal series (k = 2) and for the diffuse series (k = 3), on the other hand it is very considerable for the variable term of the sharp series (k = 1). The different configurations of the inner electrons might be due to different ways of removing the electron from the neutral atom: thus, if it is removed by impact perpendicular to the plane of the ring, we might expect the orbit of the remaining electron to be circular, if it is removed by an impact in the plane of the ring we might expect the orbit to be flat.
The different frequencies corresponding to the various harmonic components of the motion are emitted simultaneously according to the ordinary theory of radiation and with a relative intensity depending directly upon the ratio of the amplitudes of these oscillations. The different series of stationary states must therefore correspond to different types of orbits of the outer electron, involving different relations between energy and frequency. The different ser~es appear if we put ~'1 or ~'~equal to a fixed number and let the other vary. The difficulties encountered in an attempt to give a detailed explanation of the spectrum of a particular element, however, become very serious, even when we consider the spectrum of helium whose neutral atom contains only two electrons.
The difficulties which we meet make it probable that a harmonic interaction can be attained precisely by four groups each containing eight electrons the orbital configurations of which exhibit axial symmetry. The difficulty of arriving at a satisfactory picture of the atom is intimately connected with the difficulty of accounting for the pronounced stability which the properties of the elements demand. The dimensions of the nucleus are supposed to be very small in comparison with the dimensions of the orbits of the electrons, and almost the entire mass of the atom is supposed to be concentrated in the nucleus.
The dinner took place in a most humorous atmosphere and gave the opportunity for several of Rutherford's colleagues to recall some of the many anecdotes which already then were attached to his name. The discovery of these beautiful and simple laws concerning the line spectra of the elements has naturally resulted in many attempts at a theoretical explanation. The discovery of thorium emanation was followed elsewhere by Dorn in I900 who discovered radium emanation with a half-value period of 3-8 days.
The discovery removed indeed all doubts about the necessity of ascribing wave-properties to this penetrating radiation, the corpuscular features of which in its interaction with matter, as especially stressed by William Bragg, had been so strikingly illustrated by Wilson's cloud chamber pictures showing the tracks of high speed electrons liberated by the absorption of the radiation in gases. The discovery that helium, as opposed to the alkali metals, possesses two complete spectra of the Rydberg type which do not exhibit any mutual combinations was so surprising that at times there has been a tendency to believe that helium consisted of two elements.
The discussion of these developments, which formed the main topic of the conference,was preceded by a report by J. J. Thomson about the ingenious conceptions regarding the electronic constitution of atoms, by which without departing from classical physical principles 84 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE he had been able, at least in a qualitative way, to explore many general properties of matter.
The discussion, so illustrative of the power and consistency of relativistic arguments, thus emphasised once more the necessity of distinguishing, in the study of atomic phenomena, between the proper measuring instruments which serve to define the reference frame and those parts which are to be regarded as objects under investigation and in the account of which quantum effects cannot be disregarded. The discussions of problems in atomic physics were concerned above all with the strange character of the quantum of action in relation to the concepts employed in the description of all experimental results, and in this connection we also talked about the possibility that mathematical abstractions here, as in relativity theory, might prove to be useful.
The discussions of these pheno- mena had been introduced at the meeting in a report by Nernst on the application of quantum theory to different problems of physics and chemistry, in which he especially considered the properties of matter at very low temperatures. The discussions with Einstein which have formed the theme of this article have extended over many years which have witnessed great progress in the field of atomic physics.
The discussions, however, centred on the question of whether the quantum-mechanical description exhausted the possibilities of accounting for observable phenomena or, as Einstein maintained, the analysis could be carried further and, especially, of whether a fuller description of the phenomena could be obtained by bringing into consideration the detailed balance of energy and momentum in individual processes. The discussions, to which I have often reverted in my thoughts, added to all my admiration for Einstein a deep impression of his detached attitude.
The displacements of the particles in the stationary states of the perturbed system will therefore be given by an expression of the same type as (31) where the fundamental frequencies k and the amplitudes C1 ,..., s may differ from those corresponding to the stationary states of the original system by small quantities proportional to the intensity of the perturbing forces. The distance between the components observed by Paschen and Back ( loc. The distance between the components was found to be proportional to the electric force within the limits of experimental errors.
The distance between the outer components for all three series is smaller than that observed for the hydrogen line corresponding to the same value of, but the ratio between this distance and that of the hydrogen lines approaches rapidly to unity as increases. The distances of the separate points from the vertical line at the right of the figure are proportional to the numerical value of the energy of the atom given by equation (13). The divergent attitudes to this problem gave rise to lively discussions, I remember with pleasure and the interest with which especially the younger listeners responded to my emphasis on the correspondence principle as a guide for the further development.
The dotted frame indicates the last stage but one in the development of the group with 5quanta orbits, which hitherto has not been observed, but which ought to begin shortly after uranium, if it has not already begun in this element. The early establishment of Canterbury College was another example of the zeal for education shown by the early colonists. The eccentricity and the position of the orbit vary continuously under the influence of the field. The effect of a magnetic field on the hydrogen spectrum. The effect of an external electric field on the hydrogen lines. The effect of such a field will consist in the superposition of a rotation of the entire system about an axis through the nucleus and parallel with the magnetic force.
The effect of the field on the lines of the Principal series and the Sharp series was very small and hardly distinguishable. The effect on the motion of the hydrogen atom consists simply of the superposition of a uniform rotation upon the motion of the electron in the unperturbed atom. The effect was observed for hydrogen and helium. The effects just described, however, which are the same as would take place if only the parallel component of the weaker field was acting on the atom, will not be the only effects of the presence of the weaker field on the spectrum. The efforts of all supporters of international cooperation, individuals as well as nations, will be needed to create in all countries an opinion to voice, with ever increasing clarity and strength, the demand for an open world.
The elements emit also another type of spectrum, the so-called spark spectra, when they are subjected to an extremely powerful discharge. The elements in successive columns which possess homologous chemical and physical properties are connected with lines. The elucidation of these apparent paradoxes has been brought about by the recognition that the interaction between the objects under investigation and our tools of observation, which in ordinary experi- THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THE SCIENCES ig ence can be neglected or taken into account separately, forms, in the domain of quantum physics, an inseparable part of the phenomena. The emission (and absorption) of the two components of the yellow line are, therefore, connected with two different processes.
The emphasis on observational problems again brought to the fore- ground the questions Heisenberg and I had talked about on his first visit toCopenhagen and gave rise to further discussions about general epistemological problems. The energy changes are in approximate accord with these conclusions. The energy contained within the system at any moment is always equal to a whole multiple of the socalled quantum of energy the magnitude of which is equal to h, where h is Plancks constant and is the frequency of oscillation of the system per second. The energy corresponding to one of the stationary states will therefore for r great be very nearly equal to tha~ given by the expression (3) on p. 5, if we put E = e .
The energy in the various stationary states, if the small influence of the motion of the nucleus is neglected, is given by the following formula: 2 2 N 2 e4 m , (5) n2 h2 where e and m are respectively the charge and the mass of the electron, and where for the sake of subsequent applications the charge on the nucleus has been designated by N e. For the atom of hydrogen N = 1, and a comparison with equation (3) leads to the following theoretical expression for K in formula (2), namely En = K= 2 2 e4 m . The energy in these states will then be determined by expression (7) which was derived from the spectrum of hydrogen. The energy of a resonator was shown by Planck you may remember to be always equal to nh.
The energy of each state is connected with oonneoted with this difference in the starting- the corresponding period of vibration according to the general quantum relation (1). The energy of the system being given, the major axis of the elliptical orbit of the electron and its frequency of revolution are also determined. The energy values differ so little from one another that it is impossible to represent them in the figure as separate dots.
The enthusiasm for the prospects opened by the success of the new experimental approach to natural philosophy, encouraged in equal measure by the widening of the world picture due to the vision of Copernicus and by the elucidation of circulation mechanisms in animal bodies initiated by Har vey's great achievement - found perhaps its most striking expression in the work of Borelli, who succeeded to clarify in so fine detail the mechanical function of skeleton and muscles in animal motion. The entire formalism is to be considered as a tool for deriving predictions, of definite or statistical character, as regards information obtainable under experimental conditions described .
The epistemological lesson we have received from the new development in physical science, where the problems enable a comparatively concise formulation of principles, may also suggest lines of approach in other domains of knowledge where the situation is of essentially less accessible character. The epistemological problems touched upon here were more explicitly dealt with in my contribution to the issue of Naturunssenschaften in celebration of Planck's 70th birthday in 1929. The equation (7) further shows that if the relations (2) and (6) hold for a system of orbits, they will hold also for any small variation of these orbits for which the value of is unaltered. The equations (44) allow to follow completely the perturbing effect of the external field on the motion of the system.
The equidistant parallel lines to the left in the figures indicate the train of plane waves corresponding to the state of motion of a particle which, before reaching the diaphragm, has a momentum P related to the wave-number s by the second of equations (1). The equilibrium point is reached when the rate of production is balanced by the rate of decay. The equivalence of the physical contents of the two different mathe- matical formalisms was completely elucidated by the transformation theory formulated independently by Dirac in Copenhagen, and Jordan in Gottingen, which introduced in quantum physics possibilities for the change of variables similar to those offered by the symmetrical character of the equations of motion in classical dynamics in the canonical form given by Hamilton.
The essential point is now that any determination of this position with a given accuracy Dq will involve a minimum latitude Dp in the control of the momentum of the box connected with Dq by the relation (3). The essential point of our argument is indeed not to be found in such new experience but in the obvious impossibility to account for common physical and chemical evidence on the basis of the well established main features of Rutherford's atomic model without departing radically from the classical ideas of mechanics and electromagnetism. The essentially new feature in the analysis of quantum phenomena is, however, the introduction of a fundamental distinction between the measuring apparatus and the objects under investigation.
The essentially statistical character of the physical deductions from wave mechanics was eventually clarified by Born's brilliant treatment of general collision problems. The establish ment of this new so-called quantum mechanics which, as is well known, we owe above all to the ingenious contributions of the younger generation of physicists has, indeed, quite apart from its astounding fruitfulness in all branches of atomic physics and chemistry, essentially clarified the episte mological basis of the analysis and synthesis of atomic phenomena.
The establishment of effective control measures will of course involve intricate technical and administrative prob- lems, but the main point of the argument is that the accomplishment of the project would not only seem to necessitate but should also, due to the urgency of mutual confidence, facilitate a nev approach to the problems of international relationship. The establishment of this principle led therefore to the prediction of a great number of lines which were not included in the spectral formulae previously considered, and on the spectrum of hydrogen in a large number of cases the calculations were found to be in close agreement with the experimental observations.
The exaggeration of the Aristotelian doctrine, on its side, was, however, clearly brought to light by the gradual recognition of the elementary laws of nature valid as well for inanimate bodies as for living organisms.
The examination of this problem has been undertaken by Mr. H. A. Kramers, who has deduced complete expressions for these amplitudes, by means of which it was found possible, for each of the hydrogen lines H , H , H and H , to account in a convincing way for the apparently capricious laws which govern the intensities of the components observed by Stark.1 ) This agreement offered at the same time a direct experimental support for the conclusions mentioned above: that there exist no stationary states corresponding to n3 = 0, while the stationary states corresponding to other values of n2 are apriori equally probable; and that transitions can only take place between pairs of stationary states for which n3 is the same or differs by one unit.
The excellent agreement between the calculated and observed values of the ratios between the wave lengths in question seems a strong argument in favour of the validity of the foundation of Nicholson's calculations. The exchange of views started at the sessions was eagerly con- tinued within smaller groups during the evenings, and to me the opportunity of longer talks with Einstein and Ehrenfest was a most welcome experience. The existence in the spectra of the other elements of a number of separate functions of n compels us to assume the presence not of one but of a number of series of stationary states, the energy of the nth state of the kth series apart from an arbitrary additive constant being given by Ek (n) = hfk (n).
The existence of such particles seems almost necessary to explain the building up of heavy elements'. The existence of the elementary quan tum of action expresses, in fact, a new trait of individuality of physical processes which is quite foreign to the classical laws of mechanics and elec tromagnetism and limits their validity essentially to those phenomena which involve actions large compared to the value of a single quantum, as given by Planck's new atomistic constant.
The existence of the two spectra can, however, be traced back to the fact that in the stationary states corresponding to the series spectra we have to do with a system possessing only one inner electron and in consequence the motion of the inner system, in the absence of the outer electron, will be simply periodic and therefore easily perturbed by external forces. The experimental arrangements hitherto discussed present a special simplicity on account of the secondary role which the idea of time plays in the description of the phenomena in question.
The experimental devices~0pening and closing general character Of relation 2 howev of apertures, etcare seen to permit only conclusions be consistently utilized also in theguantum theory, if regarding the space-time extension of the associated all the uncertaint ex ressed throu h this relation is wave-fields. The experimental haviour, while the determination of its momentum devicesopening and closing of apertures, etc. The experimental results are represented in the upper half of the diagram, the distances from the dotted line representing the measured displacements of the components, and the lengths 30 1922 N .
The experiments seem to indicate that the second of these three transitions is most probable, and I shall show later that there is some theoretical justification for this conclusion. The experiments take a good deal of time and have to be done with great accuracy. The expression for this constant will in fact contain the factor M , where M is the mass of the nucleus. The extension of physical experience in our days has, however, necessitated a radical revision of the foundation for the unambiguous I0 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE use of our most elementary concepts, and has changed our attitude to the aim of physical science.
The extent to which ordinary physical pictures fail in accounting for atomic phenomena is strikingly illustrated by the well-known dilemma concerning the corpuscular and wave properties of material particles as well as of electromagnetic radiation. The extent to which renunciation of the visualisation of atomic phenomena is imposed upon us by the impossibility of their subdivision is strikingly illustrated by the following example to which Einstein very early called attention and often has reverted. The fact that all the observed values are a little smaller than the calculated may be due to a slight over-estimate of the intensity of the fields used in the experiments (see Stark, loc.
The fact that every thing which has come into our consciousness is remembered points to its leaving permanent marks in the organism. The fact that for a constant n and increasing values of k the energy values approach the corresponding values for the unperturbed hydrogen atom is immediately evident from the theory since the outer electron, for large values of the parameter of its orbit, remains at a great distance from the inner system during the whole revolution. The fact that in one and the same well-defined experimental arrange- ment we generally obtain recordings of different individual processes thus makes indispensable the recourse to a statistical account of quantum phenomena. The fact that reciprocal uncertainties of energy and time values.
The fact that such a closed mediately connected with the accuracy of the knowledge system is associated with a particular energy value may of the energy of the colliding particle, and hence there be considered as an immediate expression for the claim can never be the possibility of a contradiction with the Ifcausality contained in the theorem of conservation 0L law of conservation. The fact that the deficiencies of the atomic model we are considering stand out so plainly is therefore perhaps no serious drawback; even though the defects of other atomic models are much better concealed they must nevertheless be present and will be just as serious.
The fact that the frequencies of the spectra always appear as the difference of two terms, the socalled spectral terms, from the combinations of which the complete spectrum is formed, has been pointed out by Ritz, who with the establishment of the combination principle has greatly advanced the study of the spectra. The fact that the frequency of each line of the spectrum may be written as the difference of two simple expressions depending upon whole numbers suggests at once that the terms on the righthand side multiplied by h may be placed equal to the energy in the various stationary states of the atom.
The fact that the last captured electron, at any rate for low values of k, revolves partly inside the orbits of the previously bound electrons will on the contrary involve that the presence of these electrons will give rise to a virtual repulsion which is considerably smaller than that which would be due to their combined charges. The fact that the last considerations hold for every nondegenerate conditionally periodic system suggests the assumption that in general the a-priori probability will be the same for all the states determined by (22), even if it should not be possible to transform the given system into a system of independent degrees of freedom without passing through degenerate systems.
The fact that the resonance radiation does not exhibit the same degree of polarization as the incident light is in perfect agreement with our assumption that the radiation from the excited vapour is not a resonance phenomenon in the sense of the ordinary theory of radiation, but on the contrary depends on a process which is not directly connected with the incident radiation. The fact that the series spectra of the alkali metals, which possess the simplest structure, consist of double lines whose separation increases with the atomic number, indicates that here we have to do with systems in which the motion of the outer electron possesses in general a somewhat more complicated character than that of a simple central motion.
The fact that the spectrum in question is not observed in an ordinary helium tube, but only in stars, may be accounted for by the high degree of ionization which is required for the production of this spectrum; a neutral helium atom contains of course two electrons while the system under consideration contains only one. The fact that the symbolical quantum theory relation (2) (cf. The fact that there is no inactive gas possessing an outer group of 18 electrons is very easily accounted for by the much larger dimensions which a 33 orbit has in comparison with a 22 orbit revolving in the same field of force.
The fact that this challenge to civilization presents the nations with a matter of the deepest common concern should offer a unique opportunity for seeking continued co-operation on vital problems. The fact that this length is still " 2 2 large compared with the "electron radius e /mc which limits the , unambiguous application of the concepts of classical electromagnetic theory, suggests, however, that there is still a wide scope for the validity of quantum electrodynamics, even though many of its consequences cannot be tested by practical experimental arrangements involving measuring instruments sufficiently large to permit the neglect of the statistical element in their construction and handling. The fact that this neglect is justified in elementary wave constituting the group.
The fact the abstraction of free individuals, a fundamental that this neglect is justified in many applica- distinction between time and s , however, tions is connected with the circumstance that the would seem to be excluded by the relativity require- coupling between the atom and the radiation ment. The factthat in atomic physics, where we are concerned with regu- laritiesof unsurpassed exactness, objective description can be achieved only by including in the account of the phenomena explicit reference to the experimental conditions, emphasizes in a novel manner the in- separability of knowledge and our possibilities of inquiry.
The failure of the classical mechanics in such a problem might also be expected beforehand from tile absence of any- thing like equipartition of kinetic energy between free electrons and electrons bound in atoms. The failure of the theories of classical physics in accounting for atomic phenomena was further accentuated by the progress of our knowledge of the structure of atoms. The father was a man of great character, mechanically ingenious and of fine disposition, straight and honourable in his business dealings. The fear of being left behind was a strong incen- tive in various countries to explore in secrecy the possibilities of using such energy sources for military purposes.
The fee is owed to the owner of the Project GutenbergTM trademark, but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. The figures before the different elements are the atomic numbers, which give the total number of electrons in the neutral atom. The figures in the different columns give the number of electrons in orbits corresponding to the values of the principal and subordinate quantum numbers standing at the top. The final result may be awaited with great interest, since it offers in the simplest case imaginable a test of the principles by which we are attempting to determine stationary states of atoms containing more than one electron.
The final result of the binding of the second electron is intimately related to the origin of the two helium spectra. The final stage in the binding process we may designate as the normal state of the atom, and it is distinguished from the other stationary states by the property that, in accordance with the postulates, the state of the atom can only be changed by the addition of energy whereby the electron is transferred to an orbit of larger dimensions corresponding to an earlier stage of the binding process. The fine structure components are not analogous to the individual doublet components, but each single fine structure component corresponds to the ensemble of components (doublet, triplet) which makes up one of the series lines in Rydbergs scheme.
The fine structure components of a given hydrogen line will therefore become diffuse and merged together. The fine structure of the hydrogen lines. The first among the many distinguished theoretical physicists who stayed with us for a longer period was Hans Kramers, who as a quite young man came to Copenhagen during the war and proved to be such an invaluable asset to our group during the ten years he worked with us until, in 1926, he left his position as lecturer in the Institute to take over a professorship in Utrecht. The first approximation to the cussed by Sir William Hardy in two recent lectures, required temperature is arrived ab by regulating The abandonment of the earlier agricultural civilithe temperature and rate of flow of the brine.
The first assumption seems to present itself; for it is known that the ordinary mechanics cannot have an absolute validity, but will only hold in calculations of certain mean values of the motion of the electrons. The first electron bound in each atom moves in an orbit 34 1922 N.BOHR 11 21 22 31 32 33 41 42 43 4. The first essay describes the observational situation in quantum physics and the notion of complementarity. The first experiments they made with accelerated protons in March, 1930, in which they looked for gamma-rays emitted as a result of the interaction of the protons with the target nuclei, gave no result. The first factor in the second term is equal to the expression (5) if.
The first stage in the formation of this group may be said to have been attained in krypton with the appearance of a symmetrical configuration of eight electrons consisting of two subgroups each of four electrons in 41 and 42 orbits. The first step to a more general formulation of the correspondence principle was offered by the problem of optical dispersion.
The first time I had the great experience of seeing and listening to Rutherford was in the autumn of 19 1 1 when, after my university studies in Copenhagen, I was working in Cambridge with J. J. Thomson, and 1 The present text is an elaborated version, completed in 1961, of the lecture delivered without a prepared manuscript at a meeting of The Physical Society of London at the Imperial College of Science and Technology on November 28th, 1958. The first time such a deviation is met with is in the 4th period, and the reason for it can be simply illustrated by means of our figure of the orbits of the last electron bound in the atom of potassium, which is the first element in this period.
The first to apply the postulates to this problem was Schwarzschild, but the important work of Heurhnger especially has thrown much light on the origin and structure of band spectra. The following discussion was opened by Rutherford, who, after giving expression for the great pleasure that the recent development of what he used to call modern alchemy had given him, told about some most interesting new results, which he and Oliphant had just obtained by the bombardment of -lithium with protons and deuterons. The following figure gives a survey of the stationary states of the sodium atom deduced from the series terms.
The following on the whole, neglected until more recently, when variables have been found to affect the storage life the importance of defining the exact conditions of apples : variety, rootstock and age of tree, under which the stored foodstuffs survived for the maturity of fruit on tree, its size and position on longest time was realised and the science of the inflorescence, the soil, manuring and climate, biological engineering became differentiated from and finally orchard sanitation.
The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate access to, the full Project GutenbergTM License must appear prominently whenever any copy of a Project GutenbergTM work (any work on which the phrase Project Gutenberg appears, or with which the phrase Project Gutenberg is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or distributed: This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. The forceful admoni- tion in this respect which we have received in our time cannot be left unheeded and should hardly fail in resulting in common understanding of the serious- ness of the challenge with which our whole civiliza- tion is faced.
The formal basis of the quantum theory consists not only of the frequency relation, but also of conditions which per mit the determination of the stationary states of atomic systems. The formal completion of the new quantum mechanics was soon achieved in close 76 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE cooperation with Born and Jordan. The formation and stability of the atoms of the elements in the first three periods require that each of the first 18 electrons in the atom shall be bound in each succeeding element in an orbit of the same principal quantum number as that possessed by the particular electron, when it first appeared. The formation of an atom was held to consist in the successive binding of electrons, this binding resulting in radiation according to the quantum theory.
The formula (4) may theretbre be of value in the discussion of the results of experimental determinations of the constants e, m, and h. of Atoms aml ~l~)lecules. The formula applying to this spectrum is given by the expression R R 1 = 2 2. n1 n2 According to our assumption this spectrum is produced by transitions between a series of stationary states of a system, concerning which we can for the present only say that the energy of the system in the nth state, apart from an additive Rhc constant, is given by 2 . The formula is found very closely to represent some series of lines observed by Fowler These series correspond to and .
The foundation of the hypothesis has been sought entirely in its relation with Planck's theory of radiation ; by help of considerations given later it will be attempted to throw some further light on the foundation of it from another point Of view. The frequencies of its lines may be represented with great accuracy by means of Balmer's formula: where K is a constant and n' and n'' are two integers. The frequencies of the spectral lines calculated according to both methods agree completely in the region where the stationary states deviate only little from one another. The frequencies of these edges agree very closely with the spectral terms used to account for the Xray lines. The frequencies of these new components may be + , where is different from 1.
The frequency of revolution and the major axis 2a of the orbit will be connected with the energy of the system by the following equations: r e2 2W 3 , 2a = . The frequency of revolution to and the major-axis of the orbit 2a will depend on the amount of energy W which must be transferred to the system in order to remove the electron to an infinitely great distance apart from the nucleus. The frequency of rotation and the major axis of the relative orbit of the particles in the stationary states are given by The energy necessary to remove the electron to infinite distance from the nucleus is This expression is also equal to the mean value of the kinetic energy of the system. The frequency of rotation is equal to.
The frequency of the radiation would be, which is of the same order of magnitude as the characteristic frequency calculated from experiments on dispersion in helium. The frequency of these waves does not depend directly upon the motion of the atom, but is determined by a frequency relation, according to which the frequency multiplied by the universal constant introduced by Planck is equal to the total energy emitted during the process. The frequency, however, must always lie above a certain limit connected according to Einsteins theory in a simple manner with the energy necessary to bring an electron out of the metal. The fruit- 1 This letter was delivered to the Secretary General of the United Nations on June 12, 1950, and at the same time re- lensed for publication.
The full recognition of the last crucial point involves, however, the question of the scope of unambiguous application of classical physical concepts in accounting for atomic phenomena. The fundamental discoveries of the constituents of the atom and the quantum of action, which were the outset of the development, originated, as is well known, in lines of inquiry pursued in various countries by scientific schools with different traditions and outlooks, the confluence of which gave rise to international cooperation of an intensity and enthusiasm which has indeed only few counterparts in the history of science.
The general appearance of the Rydberg constant in these spectra is to be explained by assuming that the atom is neutral and that one electron revolves in an orbit the dimensions of which are large in comparison with the distance of the inner electrons from the nucleus. The general character of the secular perturbations of the orbit of the electron will therefore be the same as in the case, considered in 2, where the atom is exposed only to an electric field of axial symmetry, and the conditions which fix the stationary states of the perturbed atom will again be expressed by the relations (61). The general importance of Planck's theory for the dis- cussion of the behaviour of atomic systems was originally pointed out by Einstein .g..
The general lesson of the role that mathematics has played through the ages in natural philosophy is the recognition that no relationship can be defined without a logical frame and that any apparent disharmony in the description of experiences can be eliminated only by an appropriate widening of the conceptual framework. The general picture of the atom The present state of atomic theory is characterized by the fact that we not only believe the existence of atoms to be proved beyond a doubt, but also we even believe that we have an intimate knowledge of the constituents of the individual atoms.
The general problem of the effect of an electric field on the spectra of elements of higher atomic number differs essentially from the simple Stark effect of the hydrogen lines, since we are here concerned not with the perturbation of a purely periodic system, but with the effect of the field on a periodic motion already subject to a perturbation. The general programme of interpreting the accumulated experience about the ordinary physical ".and chemical properties of matter on the basis of the Rutherford model of the atom presented, however, more intricate problems which were to be clarified gradually in the succeeding years.
The general programme of interpreting the accumulated experience about the ordinary physical and chemical properties of matter on the basis of the Rutherford model of the atom presented, however, more intricate problems, which were to be clarified gradually in the succeeding years. The general question of the fixation of the stationary states of an atom containing several electrons presents difficulties of a profound character which are perhaps still far from completely solved. The general understanding of the specific properties of matter, to which the quantum of action provided a clue, has initiated a period of rapid growth of the natural sciences, reminiscent in many respects of the scientific revolution in the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries.
The generations who in coming years pursue the exploration of the World of atoms will continue to draw inspiration from the work and life of the great pioneer." The generations who in coming years pursue the exploration of the world of atoms will continue to draw inspiration from the work and life of the great pioneer. The gradual recognition, through the development of anatomy and physiology, of the immense complexity of the structure of living organisms and the multifarious refined regulative mechanisms govern- ing their function, has often led to doubts whether the maintenance of order in the organism is compatible with the general laws of thermo- dynamics.
The great 'advance', if we can call it such, of this H bomb is that there is no upper limit to it except the carrying capacity of the aeroplane, etc., for the deuterium, tritium or lithium deuteride contained. The great contrast in the physical and chemical properties of thorium-X and emanation gave them the first definite clue that radioactivity was a consequence of successive transformations of elements and led to the enunciation of the disintegration theory-this was written in a paper for publication and in sending it via Sir William Crookes Rutherford wrote (1902): 'I am sending you a manuscript by Mr Soddy and myself on the radioactivity of thorium.
The great difference between the conditions for the production of the Balmer series and the series under consideration is also brought out very strikingly by some recent experiments of Rau on the minimum voltage necessary for the production of spectral lines. The great difference between the origin of the Xray and the series spectra is clearly seen, however, in the difference of the laws applying to the absorption of radiation in the Xray and the optical regions of the spectra. The great difference in the chemical properties of hydrogen and helium is closely related to the great difference in the nature of the binding of the electron.
The great significance of this discovery lies in the fact that it would seem firmly to establish the view that this atomic number is equal to the number of electrons in the atom. The greater the accuracy of the reading q of the pointer, the longer must, consequently, be the balancing interval T, if a given accuracy Dm of the weighing of the box with its content shall be obtained. The growing tension preceding the second world war accentpsted these difficulties and created many barriers to free intercourse between nations. The growth of winter vegetables was developed and heat, production is greater the higher tho temanother hundred years passed before low temperature and is also increased by disease, for perature began to be employed to preserve perishexample, fungus rot.
The high frequency spectra of the elements. The hindrances met with on this path The home was calm, happy and united. The human characteristics I have illustrated were engrained in his habits and attitudes and were always to the fore in his later life, in fact they were preserved in his relations with colleagues and friends to a greater extent than is usual with most men, for he retained this happy boyishness through- out his whole life. The humorous dispute between physicists and chemists as to whether chemistry has been swallowed by physics or physics become chemistry illustrates the character and scope of this progress. The hydrogen spectrum The simplest spectrum we know is that of hydrogen.
The hypothesis of which we shall make use in the following is that the stability of a ring of electrons rotating round a nucleus is secured through the above condition of the universal constancy of the angular momentum, together with the further condition that the configuration of the particles is the one by the formation of which the greatest amount of energy is emitted. The idea that the appearance of the group of the rare earths is connected with the development of inner groups in the atom is not in itself new and has for instance been considered by Vegard in connection with his work on Xray spectra. The idea that the occurrence of the rare-earths depends on the development of an inner electron group has been put forward from different sides.
The ideal of an open world, with common knowl- edge about social conditions and technical enterprises, including military preparations, in every country, might seem a far remote possibility in the prevailing world situation. The immediate conclusion was that by radioactive decay the element, quite independently of any change in its atomic weight, would shift its place in the periodic table by two steps down or one step up, corresponding to the decrease or increase in the nuclear charge accompanying the emission of ex- or {3-rays.
The immediate conclusion was that by radioactive decay the element, quite independently of any change in its atomic weight, would shift its place in the periodic table by two steps down or one step up, corresponding to the decrease or increase in the nuclear charge accompanying the emission of oc- or p-rays, respectively. The immigrants were of good type and selected from sober, intelligent and mainly God-fearing applicants, most of them healthily dissatisfied with social conditions and oppor- tunity in certain parts of Britain.
The immortal work of Galvani which inaugurated a new epoch in the whole field of science is a most brilliant illustration of the extreme fruitfulness of an intimate combination of the exploration of the laws of inanimate nature with the study of the properties of living organisms. The importance of considerations of this kind was, in the course of the discussions, most interestingly illuminated by the examination of an arrangement where between the diaphragm with the slit and the photographic plate is inserted another diaphragm with two parallel slits, as is shown in Fig. The importance of spatial electronic configurations has, in addition, been pointed out by Lewis and Langmuir in connection with their atomic models.
The importance of this has been emphasized by Ladenburg in his attempt to explain the properties of the elements in the long periods of the periodic system (see page 111). The important work of Rutherford and Ellis on [3-ray spectra revealed the possibility of a clear distinction between intranuclear effects and the interaction of the p-particle with the outer electron system and led to the clarifica- tion of the mechanism of internal conversion. The impossibility of a closer an uncertainty in the momentum of the particle, analysis of the reactions between the particle and after it has passed the diaphragm, which is the the measuring instrument is indeed no peculiarity greater the narrower the slit.
The impossibility of a closer analysis of the reactions between the particle and the measuring instrument is indeed no peculiarity of the experimental procedure described, but is rather an essential property of any arrangement suited to the study of the phenomena of the type concerned, where we have to do with a feature of individuality completely foreign to classical physics. The impossibility of making a sharp distinction between an independent behavior of the objects and their interaction with the measuring agencies entails, thus, a limitation as regards the analysis of individual atomic processes incompatible with accustomed demands of explanation.
The impossibility of making any progress with a simple system like the one considered here might have been foretold from a consideration of the dimensions involved; for with the aid of e and m alone it is impossible to obtain a quantity which can be interpreted as a diameter of an atom or as a frequency. The inadequacy of our ordinary theoretical conceptions has become especially apparent from the important results which have been obtained in recent years from the theoretical and experimental study of the laws of temperature radiation.
The inadequacy of the classical electrodynamics in ac- counting for the properties of atoms from an atom-model as Rutherford's, will appear very clearly if we consider a simple system consisting of a positively charged nucleus of v e r y s~nall dimensions and an electron describing closed orbits around it. The incessant exchange of matter which is inseparably con nected with life will even imply the impossibility of regarding an organism as a well-defined system of material particles like the systems considered in any account of the ordinary physical and chemical properties of matter.
The increase of the principal quantum number which we meet when we proceed in the series of the elements, affords also an immediate explanation of the characteristic deviations from simple periodicity which are exhibited by the natural system and are expressed in Fig. The increasing use of more and more refined mathematical abstrac- tions to ensure consistency in the account of atomic phenomena found in 1928 a temporary climax in Dirac's relativistic quantum theory of the electron. The individuality of the elementary - electrical Indeed, a limitation of the extent of the wave- corpuscles is forced upon us by general evidence.
The insufficiency of the methods hitherto developed Quite apart from these unsolved deep-going problems, as concerns the problem of the elementary particles ap the classical electron theory up to the present time has pears in the questions just mentioned from the fact that been the guide for a further development of the corre- they do not allow of an unambiguous explanation of the s ondence description in connection with the idea first difference in the behaviour of the electric elementary advanced 5y Compton that the ultimate electrical par- particles and the individuals symbolized through the ticles, besides their mass and charge, are endowed with conception of light quanta expressed in the so-called a magnetic moment due to an angular momentum .de- exclusion principle formulated by Pauli.
The intention, however, has been to show that the sketched generalization of the theory of the stationary states possibly may afford a simple basis of representing a number of experimental facts which cannot be explained by help of the ordinary electro- dynamics, and tha~ the assumptions used do not seem to be inconsistent with experiments on phenomena for which a satisfactory exolanation has been given by the classical dynamics and the wave theory of light. The interest of these considerations is that they lead to the prediction of some simple relations between the frequencies of the different lines.
The intervals in the system of the elements, in which a further development of an inner electron group takes place because of the entrance into the normal atom of electron orbits of a certain type, are designated in the figure by the horizontal lines, which are drawn between the vertical lines to which the quantum symbols are affixed. The intimate relation with Rutherford's atomic model appeared not least in the simple relationship between the spectrum of the hydrogen atom and that of the helium ion, in which one has to do with systems consisting of an electron bound to a nucleus of minute extension and carrying one and two elementary electric charges, respectively.
The introduction of a second condition will add nothing further to the explanation of the phenomenon, since with the appearance of new perturbing forces, even if these are too small noticeably to affect the observed Zeeman and Stark effects, the forms of motion characterized by such a condition may be entirely changed. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. The irreversible character of the physiological processes concerned is also clearly reflected by the degree to which all that has ever come to consciousness can be remem- bered.
The is short compared with the natural periods of the fact that such a closed system is associated with atom, which again means that the uncertainty in a particular energy value may be considered as the knowledge of the energy transferred in the an immediate expression for the claim of causality process is lm'%e compared to the energy differences contained in the theorem of conservation of energy. The joint American-British project re- mained unknown to me until, after my escape from occupied Denmark in the autumn of 1943, I came to England at the invitation of the British government. The language which we use in social intercourse to communicate our state of mind is indeed very different from that usually employed in the physical sciences.
The large values for 2a corresponding to large n need not, therefore, be contrary to experiment; indeed, we may in these large values seek an explanation of the fact, that in the laboratory it has hitherto not been possible to observe the hydrogen lines corresponding to large values of n in Balmers formula, while they have been observed in the spectra of certain stars. The last point will be considered more closely when we deal with the origin and nature of the Xray spectra; for the present we shall continue the consideration of the structure of the atom to which we are led by the investigation of the processes connected with the successive capture of the electrons.
The last remark brings us back into the realm of psychology, where the dif ficulties presented by the problems of definition and observation in scientific investigations have been clearly recognized long before such questions be came acute in natural science. The last remarks apply equally well to the special problem treated by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen, which has been referred to above, and which does not actually involve any greater intricacies than the simple examples discussed above. The last three articles in the volume describe various phases in the development of atomic physics and quantum theory in the context of personal reminiscences.
The later finds that the effect of electric and magnetic fields to be expected on my theory of the hydrogen spectrum is of the same order of magnitude as determined by experiment. The latest progress, which entails such great promise as regards new energy sources for industry, opens also prospects for the medical sciences which can hardly be overestimated. The latter circumstance may be supposed to be intimately connected with the instability of atomic nuclei with large charges, which is expressed in the prevalent radioactivity among elements with high atomic number.
The latter conditions, like that assumed for the frequency, may be regarded as natural generalizations of that assumption regarding the interaction between simple electrodynamic systems and a surrounding field of electromagnetic radiation which forms the basis of Plancks theory of temperature radiation. The latter demand had come to expression through the formulation of the so- called correspondence principle, which from the beginning had offered SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 87 guidance for a qualitative exploration of many different atomic pheno- mena, and the aim of which was to let a statistical account of the individual quantum processes appear as a rational generalization of the deterministic description of classical physics.
The latter especially has made very important contributions to our subject by his ingenious attempts to develop ideas about atomic constitution on the basis of the electron theory. The latter kind of compounds, to which the greater number of simple inorganic compounds belong, is frequently called heteropolar and possesses a far more typical character than the first compounds which are called homoeopolar, and whose properties to quite a different degree exhibit the individual peculiarities of the elements. The latter process may take place in different ways. The latter quantity will consequently remain constant during the motion, and the variations of q1 and q2 will be exactly the same as in a conditionally periodic system of two degrees of freedom only.
The latter rule was given in this form by Coster; Wentzel formulated it in a somewhat different way by the formal introduction of a third quantum number. The latter spectrum indicates at the same time that 43 orbits will soon appear, and therefore in this period, which like the 4th contains 18 elements, we must assume that we are witnessing a further stage in the development of the electronic group of 4quantaorbits. The latter, who was particularly familiar with the analogy between mechanics and optics, pointed out by Hamilton, and had himself come upon the track of the wave could refer equation, just to Huygens' old explanation of the double refraction in crystals. The leaf holder was insulated with sulphur because in those days we had no amber.
The lecture might deal, equally appropri- ately, not with the subuniverse but with the constitution and evolution of the stars themselves, since atomic transformations appear to be the basis of the constitution energy and radiations concerned, and Rutherford himself often speculated on this subject. The lecturer seemed himself like a large piece of the expensive and marvellous stuff he was describing. The length 2p of this parameter is given to a very close approximation by an expression of exactly the same form as the expression for the major axis, except that k takes the place of n. Using the same notation as before we have therefore h2 h2 (10) 2a = n2 2 2 , 2p = k 2 2 2 .
The lesson as regards our position as observers of nature which quantum physics has taught us has given a new background to such discussions. The lesson we have hereby received would seem to have brought us a decisive step further in the never-ending struggle for harmony between content and form, and taught us once again that no content can be grasped without a formal frame and that any form, however useful it has hitherto proved, may be found to be too narrow to comprehend new experience. The letter is indeed a spontaneous expression of his exuberant joy in the great achievements of those years and his eagerness in pursuing their consequences. The letters a and b refer to the rules of combination which I mentioned.
The limitation in the classical concepts to mention that for a more detailed description expressed through relation (2) is, besides, closely of the interaction between .individuals we cannot connected with the limited validity of classical restrict ourselves to the facts expressed by for- mechanics, which in the wave theory of matter mula (1) and (2), but must resort to a procedure corresponds to the geometrical optics, in which which allows us to take into account the coupling the propagation of waves is depicted through of the individuals, characterising the interaction *rays.
The limitation in the the scattering requires a finite extent of the radiation in classical concepts expressed through relation (2), is, be- space and time, while in the change of the motion of the sides, closely connected with the limited validity of electron demanded by the quantum postulate one seem- classical mechanics, which in the wave theory of matter ingly is dealing with an instantaneous effect taking place corresponds to the geometrical optics in which the at a definite point in space. The lines, which connect pairs of elements in successive columns, indicate homologous properties of such elements.
The local school committee had requested and been granted the privilege of having its candidates examined in their own school to avoid the disturbance of travelling and staying overnight in unaccustomed surroundings. The lowest one, the one with the least energy-the ground state -is truly stable, the others are excited states excited by collision or radiation. The magnitude of this quantum was found to be proportional to the frequency of oscillation of the particle, which, in accordance with classical concepts, was supposed to be also the frequency of the emitted radiation.
The main argument was that unambiguous communication of physical evidence demands that the experimental arrangement as well as the recording of the observations be expressed in common language, suitably refined by the vocabulary of classical physics. The main point here is the distinction between the objects under investigation and the measuring instruments which serve to define, in classical terms the conditions under which the phenomena appear. The main point, however, is that the lesson which atomic research has given us naturally influences our attitude towards the study of the entities which the living organisms represent.
The major axis and frequency of the orbit of the single electrons will for this mouon be given by the expressions (1) on p. 3 if we replace E by E es,~ and W by .W Let us now suppose n that the system of n electrons rotating in a ring round a nucleus is formed in a way analogous to the one assumed for a single electron rotating round a nucleus. The major axis of the orbit is inversely proportional to the work necessary completely to remove the electron from the nucleus, and, in accordance with the above, this work in the stationary states is just equal to hK/n2 .
The major axis of this ellipse is connected with the energy of the atom in a simple way, and corresponding to the energy values of the stationary states given by formula (3) there are a series of values for the major axis 2a of the orbit of the electron given by the formula 2an = n2 e 2 , hK (4) where e is the numerical value of the charge of the electron and the nucleus. The major-axis will therefore be approximately proportional to. The manner in which the various rows are arranged with reference to one another will be used to illustrate the more detailed theory which will be discussed later. The mass of the highest known isotopes of barium and krypton add up to 224 while the uranium-235 which had undergone fission after absorbing a neutron had the mass number 226.
The matrix theory has often been theory, especially in view of the apparently paradoxical, called a calculus with directly observable quantities. The mean value in question will therefore not be completely determined, but will be different for the different periodic cycles of shapes and positions of the orbit, which represent the continuous multitude of stationary motions which the electron may perform in each of the stationary states of the atom in the presence of the stronger field only. The mean value of the kinetic energy of the electron during the vibration is Leaving aside for a moment the discussion of the possibility of such orbits, let us investigate what series of stationary states maybe expected from the expressions (14) and (15).
The meaning of the frames round certain sequences of elements within the later periods of the table will be explained later. The meaning of the square brackets around certain series of elements in the later periods, the properties of which exhibit typical deviations from the simple periodicity in the first periods, will be discussed later. The meeting was opened by a report by Cockcroft, in which, after briefly referring to the rich evidence about nuclear disintegrations by impact of a- particles obtained in the preceding years by Rutherford and his co- workers, he described in detail the important new results obtained by bombardment of nuclei with protons accelerated to great velocities with appropriate high voltage equipment.
The memory which Rutherford has left us remains to everyone who had the ",good fortune to know and come close to him a rich source of encouragement and fortitude. The memory which Rutherford has left us remains to everyone who had the good fortune to know and come close to him a rich source of encouragement and fortitude. The metastable state, on the contrary, is the final stage of the process giving the orthohelium spectrum.
The method for the fixation of the stationary states consists in fixing the motion of each of these components by a condition, which can be considered as a direct generalization of condition (1) for a Planck oscillator, so that the stationary states are in general characterized by as many whole numbers as the number of the degrees of freedom which the system possesses. The method they used involved the solution of the equations of motion by the method of the separation of the variables.
The momentum of a particle, on so that the momentum h/A of the incident light quantum the other hand, can be determined with any desired de- is known both as regards magnitude and direction, the gree of accuracy by measuring, for example, the Doppler finite value of the aperture will prevent an exact know- effect of the scattered radiation, provided the wave-length ledge of the recoil accompanying the scattering. The momentum of a particle, within finite space-time regions.
The most general of these laws, the combination principle enunciated by Ritz, states that the frequency v for each of the lines in the spectrum of an element can be represented by the formula where T" and T' are two so-called spectral terms belonging to a manifold of such terms characteristic of the substance in question. The most important advances in physics in the former century were perhaps the development of Maxwell's electromagnetic theory,which offered so far-reaching an explanation of radiative phenomena, and the statistical interpretation of the thermo-dynamical principles culminating in Boltzmann's recognition of the relation between the entropy and probability of the state of a complex mechani- cal system.
The most important work in this connection was done by Rydberg (1890) and Ritz (1908). The most that one can demand of a theory is that this classification can be pushed so far that it can contribute to the development of the field of observation by the prediction of new phenomena. The mother Martha was a truly remarkable woman of good education and character, thrifty and hardworking, a good organizer as indeed, with so large a family, she needed to be. The mother inculcated habits of good reading and concentration; she arranged for special tuition in Latin by the primary school teacher before normal class hours.
The motion in this case will therefore be conditionally periodic and allow a separation of variables in parabolic coordinates, if the nucleus is taken as focus for both sets of paraboloids of revolution, and their axes are taken parallel to the direction of the electric force. The motion of the system is then determined by the equations (18), and the orbit is characterised by means of the constants 1 , . The motion will therefore be doubly periodic, and besides a number characterizing the term in the Balmer formula, which we shall call the principal quantum number because it determines in the main the energy of the atom, the fixation of the stationary states demands another quantum number which we shall call the subordinate quantum number.
The motions of the bodies in a planetary system, even though they obey the general law of gravitation, will not be completely determined by this law alone, but will depend largely on the previous history of the system. The natural system of the elements The ideas of the origin of spectra outlined in the preceding have furnished the basis for a theory of the structure of the atoms of the elements which has shown itself suitable for a general interpretation of the main features of the properties of the elements, as exhibited in the natural system.
The nature of the difference in question will perhaps be most clearly seen by noticing that among the quantities characterizing the first atom a quantity appears the radius of the positive sphere of dimensions o~ a length and of the same order of magnitude as the linear extension of the atom, while such a length does not appear among the quantifies characterizing the second atom, viz. The nearer this function approaches unity the smaller is the disturbance due to the inner electrons, and the more the motion of the outer approaches to that of the electron in the hydrogen atom.
The necessary condition for the application of this analogy to the case of the magnetic effect on double lines, is that the configuration of the inner electrons does not rotate in the field with the same frequency as the orbits of the outer electrons. The necessity of a readjustment of such relations was even further accentuated by the great scientific and technicaI deveIopments which hold out bright prospects for the promotion of human welfare, halt at the same time have placed formidable means of destruction in the SCIENCE, Vol. The necessity of assuming a spatial distribution of the configurations of electrons has been drawn attention to by various writers.
The necessity, in atomic physics, of a renewed examination of the foundation for the unambiguous use of elementary physical ideas recalls in some way the situation that led Einstein to his original revision on the basis of all application of space-time concepts which, by its emphasis on the primordial importance of the observational problem, has lent such unity to our world picture. The neglect of the change in mass will therefore have no important influence upon the explanation of the Zeeman and Stark effects, or upon the explanation of the difference between the hydrogen spectrum and the spectra of other elements. The neutral lithium atom contains three electrons, and according to the configuration proposed in paper II.
The new Rutherford atom did however pose the great problems of stability and of explaining the number of lines in the spectra of hydrogen, for example, an atom of which according to the theory contained one orbital electron only. The new feature of the present considerations lies, however, in the emphasis laid on the peculiar way in which the relative strength of the binding for two orbits of the same principal quantum number but of different shapes varies with the nuclear charge and with the number of electrons previously bound.
The new line was pursued with the greatest success by Schrdinger (1926) who, in particular, showed how the stationary states of atomic systems could be represented by the proper solutions of a wave-equation to the establishment of which he was led by the formal analogy, originally traced by Hamilton, between mechanical and optical problems. The new progress in atomic physics was commented upon from various sides at the International Physical Congress held in September 1927, at Como in commemoration of Volta. The next Solvay meeting in 1933 was devoted to the problems of the structure and properties of atomic nuclei, in which field such great advances were made just in that period due to the experimental discoveries as well as to new fruitful applications of quantum mechanics.
The next experiments were concerned with the so-called scattering or deflexion of ac-particles when passing through matter. The nineteenth century thus saw the growth of scientific knowledge and method to a point where its advance was universally hoped and striven for as a method of obtaining proper human desires and improving living conditions. The normal state corresponds here to a 4I orbit, which, because of the penetration into the inner region, corresponds to a much stronger binding of the electron than a 4-quantum orbit in the hydrogen STRUCTURE OF THE ATOM 37 atom.
The notion of complementarity does not imply any renunciation of detailed analysis limiting the scope of our inquiry, but simply stresses the character of objective description, independent of subjective judg- ment, in any field of experience where unambiguous communication in which evidence is essentially involves regard to the circumstances obtained. The nuclear theory of the atom. The nucleus is the seat of the essential part of the mass of the atom, and has linear dimensions exceedingly small compared with the distances apart of the electrons in the surrounding cluster.
The nucleus possesses almost the entire mass of the atom and has a positive charge of such a magnitude that the number of electrons in a neutral atom is equal to the number of the element in the periodic system, the socalled atomic number. The number of electrons in an atom is deduced to be approximately equal to half the atomic weight. The number preceding each element indicates the atomic number, and the elements within the various vertical columns form the different periods of the system. The numbers nk attached to the different levels indicate the type of the corresponding orbit. The oblique, black arrows indicate finally the transitions between the stationary states giving rise to the appearance of the lines in the commonly observed sodium spectrum.
The observations on the Zeeman effect of the hydrogen lines show that, if the fine structure is neglected, each line is in the presence of a magnetic field split up in a normal Lorentz triplet; i. e. each line is resolved in three components of which the one is undisplaced and polarised parallel to the direction of the field, while the two other components possess frequencies, which differ from that of the original line by vH , and are circularly polarised in opposite directions in a plane perpendicular to the direction of the field. The occurrence in strong fields of the effect observed by Paschen and Back must therefore be regarded as a strong support for the theoretical prediction of the effect of a magnetic field on the fine structure components of the hydrogen lines.
The occurrence of colours, that is to say the absorption of light in the visible region of the spectrum, is evidence of transitions involving energy changes of the same order of magnitude as those giving the usual optical spectra of the elements. The occurrence of five such orbits would so definitely destroy the symmetry in the interaction of these electrons that it is inconceivable that a process resulting in the accession of a fifth electron to this group would be in agreement with the correspondence principle. The occurrence of the cupric compounds shows, however, that the firmness of binding in the group of 3quanta orbits in the copper atom is not as great as the firmness with which the electrons are bound in the group of 2quanta orbits in the sodium atom.
The occurrence of this fine structure must be ascribed to the circumstance that we have to deal, even in hydrogen, with a motion which is not exactly simply periodic. The of momentum, applied for instance to a collision whole arrangement is therefore obviously un- Process between the diaphragm and some test suited to study the same kind of phenomena as body, the momentum of which is suitably con- in the previous case.
The one was by means of well-known examples of the difficulties of analysis and synthesis of psychic phenomena connected with introspection to remind ourselves that in this region of knowledge we had already been forced to face a situation presenting in several respects a formal similarity with that with which,to the great disquietude of many physicists and philosophers, we have met in atomic physics. The only difference from the expression for 2an in (17) is that n is replaced by k, so that the value of the parameter in the stationary states of the perturbed atom is given by h2 (25) 2pk = k 2 2 2 . The only difference is that the Rydberg constant in (12) is replaced by a constant.
The only guide in estimating such probabilities was the so-called correspondence principle which originated in the search for the closest possible connection between the statistical account of atomic processes and the consequences to be expected from classical theory, which should be valid in the limit where the actions involved in all stages of the analysis of the phenomena are large compared with the universal quantum. The only logical possibility of avoiding any contradiction between the formulation of the laws of physics and the concepts suitable for the description of the phenomena of life ought therefore to be sought in the essentially different character of the conditions of investigation concerned.
The only refer- ence to this discovery was made by Rutherford himself, who in the discussion following Thomson's report insisted on the abundance and accuracy of the experimental evidence underlying the nuclear model of the atom. The only spectra for which a sufficiently accurate determination of seems possible at present are the ordinary hydrogen spectrum and the helium spectrum considered in the former section, and in these cases the measurements agree very closely with calculation.
The only way in which, in such an arrangement, we could insure that the particle passed through one of the slits in the second diaphragm is to cover the other slit by a lid, as indicated in the figure; but if the slit is covered, there is of course no question of any interference phenomenon, and on the plate we shall simply observe a continuous distribution as in the case of the single fixed diaphragm in Fig. The orbit of each electron will therefore be to a first approximation doubly periodic, and will be fixed by two quantum numbers, as are the stationary states in a hydrogen atom when the relativity precession is taken into account.
The orbit of the electron may at any moment be considered as an ellipse with the nucleus in the focus, and the length of the major axis will approximately remain constant, but the effect of the field will consist in a gradual variation of the direction of the major axis as well as the excentricity of the orbit. The orbit of the electron will be a circle whose radius will be given by formulae (10), if n and k are each put equal to 1. The orbit will become almost elliptical and the period of rotation of the major axis will be very large. The orbits which come into consideration for the 7th electron in the nitrogen atom and the 7th, 8th, 9th and 10th electrons in the atoms of the immediately following elements will be circular orbits of the type 22 .
The ordering of this new rich field of experience has demanded a unambiguous use of our most radical revision of the foundation for the elementary physical concepts. The origin of the quantum theory It has, however, been possible to avoid the various difficulties of the electrodynamic theory by introducing concepts borrowed from the so-called quantum theory, which marks a complete departure from the ideas that have hitherto been used for the explanation of natural phenomena. The other aim was to express the hope that the epistemological attitude which had led to the clarification of the much simpler physical problems could prove itself helpful also in the discussion of psychological questions.
The other kind, the so-called "deep truths," are statements in which the opposite also contains deep truth. The outlook, however, was changed by the development of quantum theory and its first application to nuclear problems. The paper is divided into four parts. The parhelium spectrum, on the other hand, is ascribed by him to stationary states where the planes of the orbits form an angle with each other. The part played by hydrogen in the development of our knowledge of the spectral laws is not solely due to its ordinary simple spectrum, but it can also be traced in other less direct ways. The particular energy values are therefore given by the wellknown formula En = nh, (1) where n is a whole number, the frequency of vibration of the oscillator, and h is Plancks constant.
The particular quantum-mechanical state It may also be remarked that the wave function given of two free particles, for which they give an formula (9) of the article cited corresponds to the sp: choice of P,=0 and the limiting case of two infinitely explicit mathematical expression, may be repro- narrow slits. The particular quantum-mechanical state of two free particles, for which they give an explicit mathematical expression, may be reproduced, at least in principle, by a simple experimental arrangement, comprising a rigid diaphragm with two parallel slits, which are very narrow compared with their separation, and through each of which one particle with given initial momentum passes independently of the other.
The particularly unpleasant thing about this method of producing energy is that it does not at present appear likely that as in the case of uranium, it can be used for peaceful purposes. The peculiar character of stability of the atomic structure, demanded by the properties of the elements, is brought out in an interesting way by Kossel in two important papers. The peculiar individuality of the quantum effects presents us, as regards the comprehension of well-defined evidence, with a novel situation unforeseen in classical physics and irreconcilable with conventional ideas suited for our orientation and adjustment to ordinary experience.
The peculiar manner in which the properties of the elements vary with the atomic number, as expressed in the periodic system, provides a guide of great value in considering this latter problem. The per- manent state of this atom should correspond to the values of a and ~ calculated on p. 5. The person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. The perturbations are periodic, so that we may assume that to each energy value of a stationary state of the unperturbed system there belongs a series of discrete energy values of the perturbed system, characterized by different values of a whole number k. The frequency of the perturbations is equal to the frequency of rotation of the major axis.
The perturbations of the orbit of the electron produced by an external field which possesses axial symmetry will therefore always be of conditionally periodic type, quite independent of the possibility of separation of variables for the perturbed system. The phenomenon of the resonance radiation of the yellow sodium line is, however, not quite so simple as I have indicated, since, as you know, this line is really a doublet. The physical interpretation of the relativistic formu- lation of quantum theory ultimately rests on the possibility of fulfilling all relativity exigencies in the account of the handling of the macro- scopic measuring apparatus.
The picture I have given of the formation and structure of the atoms of the elements in the fourth period gives an explanation of the chemical and spectral properties. The picture displays very well the varied nature of the phenomenon, and shows in how peculiar a fashion the intensity varies from component to component. The place of living organisms within general physical experience has through the ages attracted the attention of scientists and philosophers.
The points of view on which we based the interpretation of the development and completion of the groups during the formation of an atom imply, on the other hand, that just as no additional electron can be taken up into a previously completed group in the atom by a change involving emission of radiation, similarly it will not be possible for a new electron to be added to such a group, when the state of the atom is changed by absorption of radiation. The points which were emphasized in connection with the binding of the last electron in the sodium atom will be even more marked here on account of the larger quantum number by which the orbits of the inner electrons are characterized.
The position and character of the orbits is defined by certain quantum relations depending on one or more whole numbers. The possibility of an interpretation of the properties of the elements on the basis of these latter laws is quite characteristic for the picture of atomic structure developed by means of the quantum theory. The possibility of producing a change at all in the motion of an electron in the interior of an atom by means of radiation must in the first place be regarded as intimately connected with the character of the interaction between the electrons within the separate groups. The possibility of such a variation is due to the fact that without the field every elliptical orbit is stationary.
The possibility of such treatment rests, however, as was stressed during the discussions, on the comparatively weak coupling between the particles and the fields expressed by the smallness of the non-dimensional constant a e*/Hc, which permits a distinction with high degree of approximation between the state of a system of electrons and its radiative reaction with an electromagnetic field. The possibility of this deformation is due to the fact that without the external field every elliptical orbit of the electron in the hydrogen atom is stationary. The possibility, that a particular transition shall occur, may be regarded as being due to the presence of a definitely assignable corresponding component in the motion.
The possible importance of the angular momentum in the discussion of atomic systems in relation to Plancks theory was first pointed out by J. W. Nicholson In paper I. it was shown that the above assumptions lead to an interpretation of the Balmer formula for the hydrogen spectrum, and to a determination of the Rydberg constant which was in close agreement with the measurements. The possible importance of the angular momentum it, the discussion of atomic systems in relation to Planek's theory is emphasized by Nieholson * The great nmnber of different stationary states we do not observe except by investigation of the emission and absorption of radiation.
The possible necessity for an alteration of this kind in assumption C may perhaps not seem unlikely when it is remembered that the laws of mechanics are only known to hold for certain mean values of the motion of the electrons. The post was known as the Macdonald Professorship, having been endowed by Macdonald along with excellent laboratory buildings. The postulates of the quantum theory. The preceding considerations enable us to understand the fact that the two elements beryllium and boron immediately succeeding lithium can appear electropositively with 2 and 3 valencies respectively in combination with other substances.
The preceding years had seen great progress in quantum physics due to a number of fundamental discoveries regarding the constitution and properties of atomic nuclei as well as due to important developments of the mathematical formalism taking the requirements of relativity theory into account. The preface to the book states 'The authors aim is not so much to give information as to endeavour to discipline the mind by bringing it into contact with nature herself. The preliminary and tentative character of the formulation of the general assumptions cannot be too strongly emphasized, and admittedly they are made to suit certain simple applications.
The preparation of these articles, written for various special occasions, led him to extensive historical studies, by which he would supplement his own memory by his rich personal correspondence from the periods in question, as well as by the published sources. The present is the child of the past and is moderated and qualified thereby. The present moment where almost all nations are en- tangled in a deadly struggle for freedom and humanity might at first sight seem most unsuited for any com- mitting arrangement the project.
The present state of our knowledge of the elements of atomic structure was reached, however, by the discovery of the atomic nucleus, which we owe to Rutherford, whose work on the radioactive substances discovered towards the close of the last century has much enriched physical and chemical science. The prevention of a competition prepared in secrecy will therefore demand such concessions regarding ex- change of information and openness about industrial efforts including military preparations as would hardly be conceivable unless at the same time all partners were assured of a compensating guarantee of common security against dangers of unprecedented acuteness.
The principal aim, however, of these considerations, which were not least inspired by the hope of influencing Einstein's attitude, was to point to perspectives of bringing general epistemological problems into relief by means of a lesson derived from the study of new, but fundamentally simple physical experience. The principal assumptions used are : (1) That the dynamical equilibrium of the systems in the stationary states can be discussed by help of the ordinary mechanics, while the passing of the systems between different stationary states cannot be treated on that basis.
The principal difference between the two experimental arrangements under consideration is, however, that in the arrangement suited for the control of the momentum of the first diaphragm, this body can no longer be used as a measuring instrument for the same purpose as in the previous case, but must, as regards its position relative to the rest of the apparatus, be treated, like the particle traversing the slit, as an object of The obvious impossibility of actually carrying out, with the experimental technique at our disposal, such measuring procedures as are discussed here and in the following does clearly not affect the theoretical argument, since the procedures in question are essentially equivalent with atomic processes, like the Compton effect, where a corresponding application of the conservation theorem of momentum is well established.
The principal result of the thorough analysis of the con- spicuous series in the line spectra and their mutual relationship was the recognition that the frequency v of every line in the spectrum of a given element could be represented with unparalleled accuracy as v =T" T", where T' and T" are two among a multitude of spectral terms T characteristic of the element. The principal task of this lecture will consist in an attempt to show that an advance along these lines appears by no means hopeless, but on the contrary that with the aid of a consistent application of the postulates of the quantum theory it actually appears possible to obtain an insight into the structure and stability of the atom.
The problem again emphasises the necessity of considering the whole experimental arrangement, the specification of which is imperative for any well-defined application of the quantum-mechanical formalism. The problem may also be solved by means of the theory of conditionally periodic systems, since the equations of motion in the presence of a magnetic field, even when the change in the mass is considered, will allow of a separation of the variables using polar coordinates in space. The problem of field quanta like mesoils is in several respects essentially different fromthose so far discussed. The problem of the constitution of the hydrogen molecule, to be expected on the quantum theory, and the possible motions of the particles of this system will be treated in Part IV.
The problem of the effect of a homogeneous electric field upon the fine structure components of the hydrogen lines has been treated in detail from this point of view by Kramers in a paper which will soon be published. The problem of the effect of a homogeneous magnetic field upon the hydrogen lines may be treated in an entirely analogous manner. The problem of the influence of an electric field on the spectra of other elements is naturally far more complicated than for hydrogen, and cannot be discussed in detail until the theory for such spectra is further developed.
The problem of this transmutation will be treated in a later paper by Mr. H. A. Kramers,1 ) who has kindly drawn my attention to this interesting application of the method of perturbations, and has thereby given a valuable impetus to the detailed elaboration of this method as regard the treatment of more complicate problems. The problem presented by the spectra of elements of higher atomic number is simpler, since the inner system is better defined in its normal state. The problem raised by Einstein was now to what extent a control of the momentum and energy transfer, involved in a location of the particle in space and time, can be used for a further specification of the state of the particle after passing through the hole.
The problem to a certain extent resembles the effect of a weak electric force on the fine structure components of the hydrogen atom. The problem with which physicists were confronted was therefore to develop a rational generalization of classical physics, which would permit the harmonious incorporation of the quantum of action. The problem, however, of the fixation of the stationary states of a hydrogen atom in the presence of a homogeneous electric field and a homogeneous magnetic field, which are parallel to each other, is very simple. The process which takes place during the increase of the field will thus be analogous to that which takes place if an oscillating particle is subject to the effect of external forces which change considerably during a period.
The product of the leastinaccuracies value of the momentum after observation is cmA/zl. The programme of this congress bears witness to the fact that the pharmaceutic and pharmacological sciences represent an integral part of that inquiry into the wonders of natureby which we promote human understanding and welfare. The prompt reply from the great veteran, who in earlier years had contributed so decisively to the elucidation of radiation problems, was: "In my young days I took many views very strongly and among them that a man who has passed his sixtieth year ought not to express himself about modern ideas.
The pronounced electronegative character of the preceding element, chlorine, may then be explained by supposing the neutral atom which contains only 17 electrons to possess a tendency to capture an additional electron. The proof of this in variance has been given quite recently by Burgers2 ) by means of an interesting application of the theory of contact transformations based on Schwarzschilds introduction of angle variables. The proper mathematical tools for a comprehensive description on complementary have been created by the so-called quantum lines mechanical formalism by which we have to such an extent been able to account for the physical and chemical properties of matter.
The properties of the elements in the latter part of the fourth period show immediately that the group, when completed, will possess 18 electrons. The properties of the elements in the seventh period are very similar to the properties of the elements in the fifth period. The proportionality factor had to be regarded as a new universal constant, since termed Planck's constant, similar to the velocity of light, and the charge and mass of the electron. The prospects which recent development of experimental technique were at the opened for further investigations of magnetic phenomena meeting reported upon by Cotton and Kapitza.
The protons fall on a surface of the material inclined at 45 to the axis of the tube, and the effects produced were observed at the side by the scintillation method, the zinc sulphide screen being covered with sufficient mica to stop the protons. The pursuit of scientific inquiry with the aim of augmenting and 8 THE UNITY OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE 9 ordering our experience of the world around us has through the ages proved fertile, not least for the continual progress of technology which to so great an extent has changed the frame of our daily life. The quantitative comprehension of a vast amount of empirical evidence could leave no doubt as to the fertility and adequacy of the quantum- mechanical formalism, but its abstract character gave rise to a widespread feeling of uneasiness.
The quantity Nicholson refers to as the energy is equal to twice the quantity which we have denoted above by W. In the latest paper cited ~icholson has found it necessary to give the tt;eory a more complicated form, still, however, repre- seuting the ratio of energy to frequency by a simple function of whole numbers. The quantity expression of experimental evidence. The quantity of energy which would be radiated away before this happened would be very great. The quantity v= 1/1- is the where At, Ax, Ay, Az denote the extension of the wave- frequency, a, , a, , a, the wave numbers in the direction field in time and in the directions of space corresponding to the co-ordinate axes.
The quantum theory in the form in which it has been applied to the problems of atomic structure rests upon two postulates which have a direct bearing on the difficulties mentioned above. The quantum theory of atomic constitution The question of further development of the quantum theory was in the meantime placed in a new light by Rutherford's discovery of the atomic nucleus (1911). The quantum theory of line-spectra rests upon the following fundamental assumptions: I. The quantum theory of multiply-periodic systems While it was thus possible by means of the fundamental postulates of the quantum.
The quantum theory offers an immediate interpretation of this principle, since, according to the frequency relation we are led to consider the lines as due to transitions between stationary states of the atom, just as in the hydrogen spectrum, only in the spectra of the other elements we have to do not with a single series of stationary states, but with a set of such series. The question at issue has been whether the renunciation of a causal mode of description of atomic processes involved in the endeavours to cope with the situation should be regarded as a temporary departure from ideals to be ultimately revived or whether we are faced with an irrevocable step towards obtaining the proper harmony between analysis and synthesis of physical phenomena.
The question at issue, therefore, is of living organisms than will the resemblance, whether some fundamental traits are still missing often mentioned, between living organisms in the analysis of natural phenomena, before we and such purely mechanical contrivances as can reach an understanding of life on the basis elockworks. The question now arises: In which way will the gradual formation of the group of electrons having 3quanta orbits take place? The question of how to ameliorate the so-called cultural rift in modern societies, which has attracted so much attention at this meeting, is after all a more restricted educational problem, the attitude to which would seem to call not only for information but, as I think everyone will agree, also for some humour.
The question of stability of a ring of electrons rotating round a positive charge is discussed in great detail by Sir J. J. Thomson *. The question of the a-priori probability of states corresponding to small values of the ns has been discussed by Sommerfeld in connection with the problem of the intensities of the different components in the fine structure of the hydrogen lines (see Part II). The question of the inner structure of the nucleus is still but little understood, although a method of attack is afforded by Rutherford's experiments on the disintegration of atomic nuclei by bombardment with a-particles.
The question of the proper interpretation of the notions of complementarity and indeterminacy was not settled without lively 62 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE disputes, in particular at the Solvay meetings of 1927 and 1930. The question then arises, how Plancks result ought to be generalized in order to make its application possible. The question was whether, as to the occurrence of individual effects, we should adopt a terminology proposed by Dirac, that we were concerned with a choice on the part of "nature" or, as suggested by Heisenberg, we should say that we have to do with a choice on the part of the "observer" constructing the measuring instruments and reading their recording.
The question, however, of the rigorous validity of both assumptions, and also of the application made of I)lanck's theory, will be more closely discussed in w 3. The question, however, ot' the existence of such stationary configurations is not essential for our determination of the permanent state, as long as we assume that the electrons in this state of the system are arranged in a single ring. The radiation emitted during such a transition is homogeneous and the frequency is determined by the relation where it is Plancks constant are the energies of the system in the two stationary states.
The rate of output of carbon dioxide on storage The heavily insulated rooms at the Low Temperaturevaries with the temperature, but the curves at perature Research Station at Cambridge are cooled different temperatures all have the same shape. The ratio between an electric resolution of and should, according to the calculations of section 2, be 0.76; the ratio between the components observed is or 0.83. The ratios between the frequencies corresponding to the lines in question are compared with the ratios between the frequencies corre- sponding to different modes of vibration of the ring of electrons. The re- formation of a hydrogen atom b when the electron has been removed to great distances away from the nucleus.
The realization of prospects involving, as condition of the con- sistency of the whole approach, the possibility of the fixation of the constant a, as well as the derivation of other non-dimensional relations between the masses of elementary particles and coupling constants, was at the time of the conference hardly yet attempted. The reason is, of course, that, being uncharged, it is not repelled by the positive charge of the nucleus and can make contact with it more readily.
The reason why the binding of a first electron in an orbit of this type will not prevent the capture of the others in two quanta orbits may be ascribed to the fact that 21 orbits are not circular but very eccentric; For example, the 3rd electron cannot keep the remaining electrons away from the inner system in the same way in which the first two electrons bound in the lithium atom prevent the third from being bound in a 1quantum orbit. The reason why the binding of the outer electron cannot proceed to an orbit characterized by a smaller value for the total quantum number may also be considered as analogous in the two cases. The reason why the spectrum considered is not observed in * E. C. Yickering, Astrophys.
The reciprocal In his investigations already mentioned on the consist- uncertainty which always affects the values of these ency of the quantum-theoretical methods, Heisenberg quantities is, as W111 be cfiefi' from the preceding analysis, has given the relation (2) as an expression for the essentially an outcome Ofthe limited accuracy with which maximum precision with which the space~time co- changes in energy and momentum can be defined, when ordinates and momentum-energy components of a par- the wave-fields used for the determination 'of the space- ticle can be measured simultaneously.
The recognition of the essential dependence of any physical phenomenon on the system of reference of the observer, which forms the characteristic feature of relativity theory, implies, however-as especially Einstein himself has emphasized-no abandonment whatever of the assumption underlying the ideal of causality, that the behavior of a physical object relative to a given system of co6rdinates is uniquely determined, quite independently of whether it is observed or not.
The recognition of this situation suggested at once the description of the binding of each electron in the field around the nucleus as a succession of in dividual processes by which the atom is transferred from one of its so-called stationary states to another of these states, with emission of the released energy in the form of a single quantum of electromagnetic radiation. The recognition we are concerned in biology is of fundamental of the limitation of mechanical ideas in atomic significance, since even the most primitive physics would much rather seem suited to conciliate organisms contain a large number of atoms.
The relat10nship between Rutherford and Kapitza was very charac teristic of them both and was, notwithstanding inevitable emotional encounters marked from first to last by a deep mutual affection. The relations between other properties of the elements are of a much more complicated character, which originates in the fact that we have to do with processes concerning the motion of the electrons in the outer part of the atom, where the forces that the electrons exert on one another are of the same order of magnitude as the attraction towards the nucleus, and where, therefore, the details of the interaction of the electrons play an important part.
The relationship between Rutherford and Kapitza was very characteristic of them both and was, notwithstanding inevitable emotional encounters, marked from first to last by a deep mutual affection. The relative intensities of these different continuous spectra, and the laws according to which the intensity is distributed within each of them, may be expected to vary to a large extent according to the different conditions under which the radiation is excited. The relative intensity with which each particular line is emitted depends consequently upon the relative probability of the occurrence of the different transitions.
The renunciation of the ideal of causality in atomic physics which has been forced on us is founded logically only on our not being any longer in a position to speak of the autonomous behavior of a physical object, due to the unavoidable interaction between the object and the measuring instruments which in principle cannot be taken into account, if these instruments according to their purpose shall allow the unambiguous use of the concepts necessary for the description of experience.
The repeatedly expressed hopes of avoiding the essentially statistical character of quantum mechanical description by the assumption of some causal mechanism underlying the atomic phenomena and hitherto inaccessible to observation would indeed seem to be as vain as any project of doing justice to the increased profundity of the picture of the world achieved by the general theory of relativity by means of the ordinary conceptions of absolute space and time. The result is that our model of the carbon atom has dynamic properties which are essentially different from the properties of Landes model. The results given in this address are also illustrated by means of the representation of the periodic system given in fig.
The results of our investigation which was begun several years before the appearance of Landes work have not yet been published. The results of the various experiments also gave a clearer picture of the forces surrounding and near to the nuclei of atoms and indicated a paradox in the case of heavv nuclei, for exaimple, in that there must be an electric potential barrier of some 10 000 000 volts, whereas a-particles can be emitted from some of these nuclei, e.g. The results of this work are of great interest particularly in the demonstration of the large back effect on the outer electron due to the perturbations of the inner orbit which themselves arise from the presence of the outer electron. The results of this work had far-reaching consequences.
The results which I am about to present to you are of no final character; but I hope to be able to show you how this view renders a correlation of the various properties of the elements in such a way, that we avoid the difficulties which previously appeared to stand in the way of a simple and consistent explanation. The revision of the foundation for the unambiguous application of our elementary con- cepts, necessary for comprehension of atomic phenomena, therefore has a bearing far beyond the special domain of physical science.
The revision of the very problem of observation in this field, initiated by Heisenberg, one of the principal founders of quantum mechanics, has in fact led to the disclosure of hitherto disregarded presuppositions for the unambiguous use of even the most elementary concepts on which the description of nat ural phenomena rests. The richness of these new aspects of the particle problem had just before the conference been revealed by the systematic investigations by Powell and his collaborators in Bristol of the tracks in photographic plates exposed to cosmic radiation, and by the study of the effects of high-energy nucleon collisions first produced in the giant cyclotron in Berkeley.
The salary was ?500 per annum which Macdonald thought sufficient as he himself, although a millionaire, lived on ?250 per annum. The same distribution should also be found in the statistical account of many experiments performed with beams so faint that in a single exposure only one electron (or photon) will arrive at the photographic plate at some spot shown in the figure as a small star. The same ideas give an immediate explanation of the interesting discovery made in recent years by Stark and his collaborators, that certain new series of combination lines appear with considerable intensity when the radiating atoms are subject to a strong external electric field.
The same result is easily shown to hold for any other placing of the second diaphragm between the first diaphragm and the plate, and would also be obtained if, instead of the first diaphragm, another of these three bodies were used for the control, for the purpose suggested, of the momentum transfer. The same type of argument that applied to the carbon atom shows that the symmetry of the configuration in the neon atom would be essentially, if not entirely, destroyed by the addition of another electron in an orbit of the same type as that in which the last captured electrons were bound. The same viewpoints have also proved fruitful in the investigation of the so-called band spectra.
The sation by many races for an urban culture required fine adjustment is made by treating the chamber the transportation for long distances of foodstuffs as an electrically controlled thermostat. The scale on the diaphragm together with the pointer on the bearings of the yoke refer to such study of the motion of the diaphragm, as may be required for an estimate of the momentum transferred to it, permitting one to draw conclusions as to the deflection suffered by the particle in passing through the slit. The scholarship was of value of ?150 per annum but there was no allowance for travel to Britain, so Rutherford had perforce to borrow, from his father and eldest brother, and this necessitated careful living for the first years of his career in England.
The second assumption is in obvious contrast to the ordinary ideas of electrodynamics, but appears to be necessary in order to account for experi- mental facts. The second point raised with such emphasis in Rutherford's letter brought me into a quite embarrassing situation. The second term in (25) corresponds to a configuration of the inner electrons and the nucleus equivalent to an electric doublet. The secrecy regarding the project which prevented public knowledge and open discussion of a matter so profoundly affecting international affairs added, of course, to the complexity of the task of the states- men. The series for which the effect, although much smaller, comes next in magnitude to the three series mentioned, is the principal single line series in the helium spectrum.
The series is also observed in the expe- riments of Fowler, and denoted in his paper as the Sharp series of the hydrogen spectrum. The shutter, however, which leaves the hole opened during the time t, moves with a considerable velocity v approx= (a/Dt), and a momentum transfer Dp involves therefore an energy exchange with the particle, amounting to vDp approx= (1/Dt) . The significance of the study of mathematics for the development of logical thinking surely cannot be overestimated, and we must realize that every student in his own mind, although in far easier circumstances and with correspondingly greater speed, must travel step by step along the same ever more lofty paths that mankind has wandered on and paved through the ages.
The similarity in the two theories is remarkable, when we recall the fundamental difference between the ideas of the quantum theory and the ordinary theories of radiation. The similarity will, however, be still more pronounced, since in this case we are concerned with the successive transformation of a configuration of electrons which lies deeper in the interior of the atom. The simple reverse of the process corresponding to the emission of, for instance, would necessitate the direct transfer of an electron from ring 1 to ring 2, but this will obviously not be possible unless at the beginning of the process there was a vacant place in the latter ring. The simple theory of the series spectrum of hydrogen.
The simplest assumption to make is that the lithium 7 captures a proton breaking up with the emission of two ordinary a-particles. The simplest description of the form of the rotating nearly elliptical electronic orbit in the hydrogen atom is obtained by considering the chord which passes through the focus and is perpendicular to the major axis, the socalled parameter. The simplest example is a hydrogen atom perturbed by a central force acting from the nucleus.
The simplest example of such a conclusion is obtained by considering an atomic system, which contains a particle describing a purely periodic orbit, and where the stationary states are characterized by a single quantum number n. In this case the motion can according to Fouriers theorem be decomposed into a simple series of harmonic oscillations whose frequency may be written , where is a whole number, and is the frequency of revolution in the orbit. The simplicity of these formulae suggests the possibility of using them in an attempt to explain the spectrum of hydrogen.
The single lines get diffuse and grow together; and when the field is increased still more the whole system of lines tends to shrink into three homogeneous components, with the same relative positions as the components of a simple Zeeman triplet. The singular position of the time in problems field, which is to be expected on classical electro- concerned with stationary states is, as we have dynamics, is in general very small compared to the seen, due to the special nature of such problems. The singular position of the time in problems waves representing the translational motion of the atoms. The situation calls for the most unprejudiced at- titude towards all questions of international relations.
The situation he pictured was, indeed, strikingly similar to that which confronted physicists by the discovery of the atomic nucleus, which to 28 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE so unsuspected a degree completed our knowledge about the structure of the atom, challenging us to find out how it could be used for ordering the accumulated information about the physical and chemical pro- perties of matter. The situation implies, however, nary description of natural phenomena. The situation in such respects was not essentially changed by the recognition, embodied in the notion of relativity, of the extent to which the description of physical phenomena depends on the reference frame chosen by the observer.
The situation in what is regarded as object and what as agency implies, however, that the main stress has to be of observation would open up a possibility of laid on the formulation of the laws governing the avoiding this uncertainty altogether. The situation is by no means improved if we also rake into consideration the well-known electrodynamic laws which Maxwell succeeded in formulating on the basis of the great discoveries of Oersted and Faraday in the first half of the last century. The situation is different, however, for the groups of electrons with 3quanta orbits.
The situation thus created is of a of measurement, not belonging to the system, peculiar nature, since our interpretation of the an unambiguous definition of the state of the experimental material rests essentially upon the tem is naturally no longer possible, and classical concepts. The situation was most peculiar, since the very definition of the energy or momentum of the photon, given by the product of Planck's constant and the frequency or wave number of the radiation, directly refers to the characteristics of a wave picture.
The size of the electron orbit in the normal state calculated on the basis of the above interpretation of the spectrum agrees roughly with the value for the dimensions of the atoms of the elements that have been calculated by the kinetic theory of matter from the properties of gases. The so-called 'shell' model of geometrical structure of the nucleus conceives successive shells of 2, 6, 12, 30, 32 and 40 particles. The solution of this problem was provided by a visiting Russian scientist Gamow based on the new so-called wave mechanics under development by Schr6dinger and this solution led Cockcroft and Walton to try the effect of protons artificially accelerated by high voltage electrical apparatus. The solution was a direct answer to the problem he set himself to solve, i.e.
The special aim of the figure is to underline that a clock is a piece of machinery, the working of which can completely be accounted for by ordinary mechanics and will be affected neither by reading of the position of its hands nor by the interaction between its accessories and an atomic particle. The spectra of helium and lithium. The spectra so far considered, for which Rydberg's laws hold, are excited by means of electric discharge under ordinary conditions and are often called arc spectra. The spectrum of helium appeared and the volume of helium produced corresponded sufficiently exactly to the number of a-particles involved as known from the counting experiments.
The spectrum of hydrogen observed in an ordinary Geissler tube consists of a series of lines, the strongest of which lies at the red end of the spectrum, while the others extend out into the ultraviolet, the distance between the various lines, as well as their intensities, constantly decreasing. The spectrum of hydrogen observed in ordinary vacuum-tubes is represented by (2) and (3) by putting Accordingly we shall assume that this spectrum is emitted by a system possessing a series of stationary states in which, corresponding to the state, the energy, omitting the arbitrary constant, is given by According to Rutherfords theory, the atom of an element consists of a central positive nucleus surrounded by electrons rotating in closed orbits.
The spectrum of this element has a simple structure in that it consists of single lines or at any rate of double lines whose components are very close together. The spectrum that is emitted during the binding of an electron by a nucleus with charge N times that of the hydrogen nucleus can therefore be represented by the formula: If in this formula we put N = 2, we get a spectrum which contains a set of lines in the visible region which was observed many years ago in the spectrum of certain stars.
The stability of the configuration of eight electrons with 2quanta orbits occurring in neon must be ascribed not only to the symmetrical configuration of the electronic orbits in the two subgroups of 21 and 22 orbits respectively, but fully as much to the possibility of bringing the orbits inside these subgroups into harmonic relation with one another. The starting-point of modern atomic physics was, as is well known, the recognition of the atomic nature of electricity itself, first indicated by Fara day's famous researches on galvanic electrolysis and definitely established by the isolation of the electron in the beautiful phenomena of electric discharges through rarefied gases, which attracted so much attention towards the end of the last century.
The state of polarization of the radiation emitted during the transition depends on the further characteristics of the vibration, in a manner analogous to that in which on the classical theory the intensity and state of polarization in the wave system emitted by the atom as a consequence of the presence of this vibration component would be determined respectively by the amplitude and further characteristics of the vibration. The state of the atoms in hydrogen gas at ordinary conditions should, however, correspond to ~-= 1; furthermore, hydrogen atoms at ordinary conditions combine into molecules, i. e. into systems in which the electrons have frequencies different trom those in the atoms (see Part III.).
The statement often advanced that the introduction of two quantum numbers should be a necessary condition for the explanation of the Balmer formula must therefore be considered as a misconception of the theory. The states are denoted as the stationary states of the system under consideration. The states corresponding to one and the same value of n are connected by dotted lines which are continued so that their vertical asymptotes correspond to the energy value of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom. The states grouped together by Sommerfeld in the separate rows are exactly those which were characterized by one and the same value of k in our investigation of the hydrogen atom perturbed by a central force. The states in question will be denoted as stationary states.
The states in the first row of the figure (row S) correspond to the value k = 1, those of the second row (P ) correspond to k = 2, etc. The states in the second row (P ) correspond to the variable term in the principal series which is emitted by transitions from these states to the first state in the S row. The stationary states are labelled with quantum numbers corresponding to the structure I have described. The stationary states are represented by black dots whose distance from the vertical line aa is proportional to the numerical value of the energy in the states. The stationary states of a perturbed periodic system. The stationary states were fixed by applying quantum conditions to each of these variables.
The statistical interpretation of Schrodinger's wave mechanics was soon clarified investigation of collision problems. The sterility of these negotia- tions, perhaps more than anything else, made it evi- dent that a constructive approach to such vital mat- ters of common concern would require an atmosphere of greater confidence. The story is told that he was digging potatoes in the garden when the news came of his success and that he threw down the fork, presumably after finishing his task, with the exclamation: 'That's the last potato I'll ever dig.' The story of Chadwick's discovery of the neutron presents similar dramatic features.
The strong coupling between the nucleons and the pion fields pre- vented, however, adequate application of simple correspondence argu- ments, and the study of collision processes especially, in which a large number of pions are created, indicated the necessity of a departure from linearity in the fundamental equations and even, as suggested by Heisenberg, the introduction of an elementary length representing 100 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE the ultimate limit of space-time coordination itself. The structure of the atoms in the remaining periods may be followed up in complete analogy with what has already been said.
The subject is touched upon in the third article, written in 1960, but my father was hoping to take up the question in a more detailed paper based on a lecture he delivered in Cologne in June, 1962, with the title Light and Life Revisited. The subject of direct observation is the distribution of radiant energy over oscillations of the various wave lengths. The subject of nuclear fission suffers from the handicap that many of its results are only tardily being taken off the secret list. The subject of the meeting was the Magnetic Properties of Matter, to the under- standing of which Langevin himself had given such important contri- and the experimental knowledge of which had been so much butions, augmented in those years, especially through the studies of Weiss and his school.
The summation is to be extended over all integral values for and . The supervisor had in the meantime perused the finished pages of the candidate's script as they lay alongside him. The symbol attached to the lines gives the transitions between the stationary states of the atom in the electric field by which the components are emitted. The table gives Malmers values for and Moseleys values for, all values being multiplied by It is seen that the agreement is close, and probably within the limits of experimental error. The task of competing with natural, radioactive sources must also have appeared quite formidable at that time.
The text would always be re- written many times while the matter was being gradually elucidated, and until a proper balance was achieved in the presentation of its various aspects. The the subject-object separation in the account of flexibility of conscious life corresponds to a richness of experience so multifarious that it involves a variety of approaches. The theoretical value for the ratio between the second factor in (3) for this spectrum and for the hydrogen spectrum is 1.000409; the value calculated from Fowlers measurements is 1.000408. The theory also led to the enunciation by Soddy in 1911 of the idea of isotopes, i.e.
The theory in order to open a general discussion on this situation thus created is of a pegmlia: nature, since nut subject, which takes so central a position in modern iWMW physical science, it is with a certain hesitation that I tially upon the classical concepts. The theory of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states gives us a means to discuss the question of the a-priori probability of the different states of a conditionally periodic system, characterised by different sets of values for the ns in (22).
The theory put forward by the writer to explain the emission of a line-spectrum may be summarized as follows: The principal assumption of Plancks theory is that the energy of a system of vibrating electrified particles cannot be transferred into radiation, and vice versa, in the continuous way assumed in the ordinary electrodynamics, but only in finite quanta of the amount, where is a universal constant and the frequency of the radiation. The theory was also able to account for certain features in the fine structure of X-ray spectra, where we meet frequency differences that may even reach a value more than a million times as great as those of the frequency differences for the components of the hydrogen lines.
The three inner components were of feeble intensity and polarized with electric vector perpendicular to the field, while the two outer stronger components were polarized with electric vector parallel to the field. The time came when Ernest was ready to compete for a scholarship to the provincial secondary school, Nelson College, valued at 50 guineas per annum. The total amount of energy W necessary transferred to the system in order to remove the electrons to infinite distances apart from the nucleus and from each other is He W = - - P - - n T = ~ (E es~) = nT, equal to the total kinetic energy of the electrons. The total potential energy of the system consisting of the electrons and the nucleus is ~e P = - a (E es.
The tracing of a closer relation between the Rutherford atomic model and the spectral evidence obviously presented intricate prob- lems. The transformation indicated in the scheme reproduced above involved a loss or dis- appearance of mass from 7'0182 (Li) + 1P0081 (H) i.e. The transition processes are also represented which correspond to the first three lines of the series of ultraviolet lines found by Lyman in 1914, of which the frequencies are given by the formula when n is put equal to 1, as well as to the first line of the infrared series discovered some years previously by Paschen, which are given by the formula if n'' is put equal to 3.
The transition we have to discuss, on the other hand, is one by which the last captured electron is transferred from a state in which it is moving outside the other to a state in which it moves round the nucleus on equal terms with the other electron. The treatment of atomic problems by means of successive approximations involving power series of cc entails, however, conspicuous limitations. The treatment of dispersion had from the beginning been an essential part of the classical approach to radiation problems, and it is interesting to recall that Lorentz had himself repeatedly called attention to the lack of such guidance in quantum theory.
The treatment of these authors rests upon the fact, that, as mentioned in Part I, the equations of motion for the electron in the present problem may be solved by means of separation of variables in parabolic coordinates (compare page 36). The trend of the argumentation was in substance the same as that exposed in the foregoing pages, but the aim of recalling the way in which the situation was discussed at that time may be an apology for citing certain passages from my article. The trend the quantities represented by such variables. The two VEWS of the nature of light placed into the foreground by the recent development are rather to considered as ' t an of the symbolic methods.
The two following papers enter on the relationship between physics and biology, which through the years has deeply interested my father, and which he first discussed in the address Light and Life from 1932, included in the previous volume. The typical quantum features of electromagnetic fields do not depend on scale, since the two fundamental constants the velocity of light c and the quantum of action h do not allow of any fixation of quantities of dimensions of a length or time interval. The uncertainty in the the microscope. The uncertainty which has prevailed in the determination of the quantum numbers for the stationary states corresponding to a spectrum like that of sodium is connected with this. The understanding of these questions is still very rudimentary.
The universal quantum of action, which revealed an elementary feature of "individuality" of atomic processes far be yond the old doctrine of the limited divisibility of matter originally introduced as a foundation for a causal explanation of the specific.c properties of maw rial substances. The use of simply harmonic circumstance removes also the apparent contradictions, proper vibrations in the interpretation of Observations arising in certain problems concerning the coherence of means, therefore, only a suitable idealization which in a resonance radiation, which have been discussed fre- more rigorous discussion must always be replaced by a quently, and were also considered by Heisenberg.
The utilisation of this principle for the permits a prediction of future events with ever- interpretation of spectroscopic results was based- increasing accuracy, because it improves our on a symbolical application of classical electro- knowledge of the initial state of the system. The vacant place in the ring may be taken by an electron coming directly from outside the whole system, but it may also be taken by an electron jumping from one of the outer rings. The value calculated for this energy was equal to the expression (5) if. The value for the ratio can be derived directly from the assumption of the existence of a series of stationary states, in which the energy can be expressed in terms corresponding to ascending powers of .
The values calculated are somewhat higher than those observed; the difference, however, might possibly be due to the difficulties, mentioned in Starks paper, of the determination of the magnitude of the electric force in his preliminary experimental arrangement. The values of n and k attached to the various states indicate the quantum numbers, which, according to Sommerfelds theory, from a preliminary consideration might be regarded as characterizing the orbit of the outer electron. The values of the atomic energy corresponding to these states are frequently referred to as the energy levels of the Xray spectra. The values of the products are seen to be very nearly equal, while the deviations are of the same order of magnitude as the limits of experimental error.
The vertical arrows represent the Fig. The vertical lines denote the components into which the line is split up, of which the picture on the right gives the components which are polarized parallel to the field and that on the left those that are polarized perpendicular to it. The very fact that knowledge is in itself the basis for civilization points directly to openness as the way to overcome the present crisis. The very fact that quantum phenomena cannot be analysed on classical linesthus implies the impossibility of separating the behavior of atomic objects from the interaction of these objects with the measuring instruments which serve to specify the conditions under which the phenomena appear.
The very fact that quantum regularities exclude analysis on classical lines necessitates, aswe have seen, in the account of experience a logical distinction between measuring instruments and atomic objects, which in principle prevents comprehensive deterministic description. The very fact that repetition of the same experiment, defined on the lines described, in general yields different recordings pertaining to the object, immediately implies that a comprehensive account of experi- ence in this field must be expressed by statistical laws.
The very nature of the of the quantum theory, it seems, as we shall see, quantum theory thus forces us to regard the space- that its essence may be expressed in the so-called time co-ordination and the claim of causality, the quantum postulate, which attributes to any atomic union of which characterises the classical theories, S_me an essential discontinuity, or rather in- as complementary but exclusive features of the ividuality, completely foreign to the classical description, symbolising the idealisation of observa- theories and sym! The very theme of the first Solvay conference in 1911, Radiation Theory and Quanta, indicates the background for the discussions in those days.
The view of atomic constitution underlying this table, which involves configurations of electrons moving with large velocities between each other, so that the electrons in the outer groups penetrate into the region of the orbits of the electrons of the inner groups, is of course completely different from such statical models of the atom as are proposed by Langmuir. The viewpoint of 'complementarity' does, indeed, in no way mean an arbitrary renunciation as regards the analysis of atomic phenomena, but is on the contrary the expression of a rational synthesis of the wealth of experience in this field, which exceeds the limits to which the application of the concept of causality is naturally confined. The visible spectra of the alkali metals consist of three series of double lines.
The volume of the phase-space limited by s pairs of surfaces, corresponding to successive values for the ns in the conditions (22), will therefore be equal to hs and consequently be the same for every combination of the ns. The wave lengths of the five strongest hydrogen lines, corresponding to n = 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, measured in air at ordinary pressure and on the spectrum of hydrogen temperature, and the values of these wave lengths multiplied 1 1 2 are given in the following table: by 4 n 1 1 8 n 10 1010 4 n2 3 6563.04 91153.3 4 4861.49 91152.9 5 4340.66 91153.9 6 4101.85 91152.2 7 3970.25 91153.7 The table shows that the product is nearly constant, while the deviations are not greater than might be ascribed to experimental errors.
The way of considering a problem of this kind has, how- ever, undergone essential alterations in recent years owing to the development of the theory of the energy radiation, and the direct affirmation of the new assumptions introdnced in this theory, found by experiments on very different phe- nomena such as specific heats, photoelectric effect, R~intgen- rays, &c. The result of the discussion of these questions seems to be a general acknowledgment of the inadequacy of tile classical clectrodynamics in describing the behaviour of systems o~ atoufic sizet. The way to the clarification of the situation was, indeed, first to be paved by the development of a more comprehensive quantum theory.
The weakness of the theory lies in the fact that, on the one hand, no closer connection with the wave concepts is obtainable and that, on the other hand, it leaves to chance (Zufall) the time and the direction of the elementary processes; nevertheless, I have full confidence in the reliability of the way entered upon. The weighing of the box may thus be performed with any given accuracy Dm by adjusting the balance to its zero position by means of suitable loads. The whole approach is not only in complete accordance with the usual chemical kinetics, but even stresses the simple assumptions on which it is based.
The whole approach, however, was still of largely semi-empirical character, and was soon to become clear that, for an exhaustive it account of the physical and chemical properties of the elements, a radically new departure from classical mechanics was needed in order to incorporate the quantum postulate in a logically consistent scheme. The whole arrangement is therefore obviously unsuited to study the same kind of phenomena as in the previous case. The whole number, which occurs as a factor in this expression, may be regarded as the second quantum number and will be denoted by k. The latter condition fixes the eccentricity of the rotating orbit which in the case of a simple periodic orbit was undetermined.
The whole question of the structure and stability of atomic nuclei was dealt with in a most weighty report by Heisenberg. The whole theory has evolved from an investigation of the way in which electrons can be captured by an atom. The with just a quantitative formulation of this corre- use of simply harmonic proper vibrations in the spondence consideration. The wonderful progress of our knowledge of the atomic constitution of matter and of the methods by which such knowledge can be acquired and interrelated has indeed carried us far beyond the scope of the deterministic pictorial description brought to such perfection by Newton and Maxwell. The work established the theory on a sound basis.
The work on the Rutherford article extended over several years, during which he conferred with a large number of colleagues who had participated in the developments concerned. Theessence of Lorentz' and Larmor's interpretations of Zeeman's famous discovery in 1896 was that it pointed directly to electron motions as the origin of line spectra in a way largely independent of special assumptions about the binding mechanism of the electrons in the atom. Their difference in frequency is proportional to the electric force and equal to According to the deduction of (21) we may expect that for high values of the radiation corresponds to vibrations parallel to the electric force. Their nuclear charges 56 and 36 respectively add up to 92, that of uranium.
Their results agree very closely with those to be expected on the assumption that the magnetism of iron is due to rotating electrons, and as pointed out by Einstein and Haas, these experiments therefore indicate very strongly that electrons can rotate in atoms without emission of energy radiation. Then the momentum exchanged be- measuring arrangements. Then the momentum exchanged between the particle and the diaphragm will, together with the reaction of the particle on the other bodies, pass into this common support, and we have thus voluntarily cut ourselves off from any possibility of taking these reactions separately into account in predictions regarding the final result of the experiment, say the position of the spot produced by the particle on the photographic plate.
Then, according to ordinary statistical mechanics, the probability for this point to lie within a small element in the phase-space is independent of the position and shape of this element and simply proportional to its volume, defined in the usual way by Z W = dq1 . Theoretical explanations of these results have been proposed by Voigt and Sommerfeld Since in the presence of a magnetic field the spectrum of an element cannot be expressed by a formula of the type (2), it follows that the effect of the field cannot be explained by considerations analogous to those employed in section 2 in considering the effect of an electric field. Theoretically this opened up the realization of a chain reaction, i.e.
There appears to me one grave difficulty in your hypothesis, which I have no doubt you fully realise, namely, how does an electron decide what frequency it is going to vibrate at when it passes from one stationary state to the other? There are a few things that you can do with most Project GutenbergTM electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. There are a lot of things you can do with Project GutenbergTM electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to Project GutenbergTM electronic works. There are many records of amusing mischievous episodes but none of vice. There are nearly 300 different sorts of stable nuclei and with different properties.
There are signs of regularity and order in the structure of nuclei. There are, however, several important cases where this does not happen on account of the simple character of the perturbations. There exists, however, this difference between the complex structure of the Xray spectra and the complex structure of the lines in the series spectra, that in the Xray spectra there occur not only combinations between spectral terms, for which k varies by unity, but also between terms corresponding to the same value of k. This may be assumed to be due to the fact, that in the Xray spectra in contrast to the series spectra we have to do with transitions between stationary states where, both before and after the transition, the electron concerned takes Fig.
There had naturally been a suspicion of a little jealousy on the part of a few that the Coutts Trotter should have been awarded to one who had not gone through the regular Cambridge degree course and Rutherford feared that similar feelings might arise in regard to the possible award to him of a fellowship. There has also been no lack of suggestions to look for a direct correlation between life and free will and those features of atomic phenomena for the comprehension of which the frame of classical physics is obviously too nar row.
There is also from the point of view an interesting formal analogy between quantum mechanics and the theory of relativity, in that it has been possible in both cases with the help of abstract concepts of arithmetic and geometry respectively, to build up strictly logical formalisms which allow a mastering of the new domains of experience. There is also, as we shall see in section 4 , some indication that the principle holds for the high frequency spectra revealed by interference in crystals. There is less free and prompt exchange of research information in the subject nowadays. There is one criticism of minor character which I would make in the arrangement of the paper. There is, however, also another possibility of deciding this question.
There is, however, this difference between Landes view and that given here, that while Lande deduced the characteristic properties of the carbon atom solely from an investigation of the simplest form of motion which four electrons can execute employing spatial symmetry, our view originates from a consideration of the stability of the whole atom. There may be many other stationary states corresponding to other ways of forming the s),,stem. There seems, however, to be no other way of advance in atomic problems than that which hitherto has been followed, namely to let the work in these two directions go hand in hand. There was another good candidate; a chemist, J. C. Maclaurin. There was one important by- product also.
There was present the retired district inspector of schools, a Mr Lambert, and in the reminiscent vein he told the story of the scholar- ship examination which he had supervised in December 1896. There was provided for Ernest an excellent small book on physics by Professor Balfour Stewart published in 1880 which bears his name on the inside cover and the date July 1882. There was still much work to be done on the radioactive transformations between radium and the ultimate parent uranium for example. There was then only a vague hope that the connection just mentioned between dispersion and perturbation effects could be exploited for a gradual reformulation of the theory, by which, step by step, every inappropriate use of classical ideas would be eliminated.
There were only 80 pupils at the time and this allowed for such relations between masters and boys that together they could go for 'hikes' in the surrounding country at weekends-thus the story of Littlejohn, the mathematics and science master, and Rutherford, engaged in a geometry discussion illustrated by rough markings with a stick on the soil beneath them. There, I again had the opportunity to see Rutherford who in the meantime had attended the inaugural meeting of the Solvay Council in Brussels, where he had met Planck and Ein- stein for the first time. There, I again had the opportunity to see Rutherford who in the meantime had attended the inaugural meeting of the Solvay Council m Brussels where he had met Planck and Einstein for the first time.
Therefore, if we were able to would correspond to the distinction between the push the analysis of the mechanism of living field of causal mechanical description and the organisms as far as that of atomic phenomena, we proper quantum phenomena in atomic mechanics. Therelationship between Heisenberg's and Schrodinger's ap- proaches to the problems of quantum theory and the full scope of the interpretation of the formalisms were shortly after most instructively elucidated by Dirac and Jordan with the help of canonical transforma- tions of variables on the lines of Hamilton's original treatment of SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 89 classical mechanical problems.
These 1928 Nature Publishing Group 582 Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 relationswell known from the theory of optical int in space. These are emitted by the elements under the influence of very strong electrical discharges, and come from ionized not neutral atoms. These are the conditionally periodic systems whose equations of motion can be solved by a separation of the variables.
These are the so called conditionally periodic systems, to which we are led if the equations of motion are discussed by means of the Hamilton-Jacobi partial differential equation.1 ) In the expression for the total energy E as a function of the qs and the ps, let the latter quantities be replaced by the partial differential coefficients of some function S with respect to the corresponding qs respectively, and consider the partial differential equation: S S = 1 , (17) ,..., E q1 , . These are usually called the (ortho) helium and parhelium spectra. These aspects of the situation were especially discussed at a meeting in Warsaw in 1938, arranged by the International Institute of Intellectual Co-operation of the League of Nations. These assumptions are known as the Quantum theory.
These calculations have been criticised by Nicholson , who has attempted to show that the configurations chosen for the electrons in the atoms are inconsistent with the main principles of the theory, and has also attempted to prove the impossibility of accounting for other spectra by help of assumptions similar to those used in the interpretation of the hydrogen spectrum. These calculations strongly suggest that an electron of great velocity in passing through an atom and colliding with the electrons bound will loose energy in distinct finite quanta.
These circumstances find quantitative expression in Heisenberg's indeterminacy relations which specify the reciprocal latitude for the fixation, in quantum mechanics, of kinematical and dynamical variables required for the definition of the state of a system in classical mechanics. These components are situated symmetrically with regard to the original lines, and their distance apart is proportional to the intensity of the external electric field. These components correspond with transitions where the principal number n decreases by units, while the quantum number k decreases or increases, respectively, by one unit, corresponding exactly with the transitions indicated by the black arrows in the figure. These conclusions appear to be supported by experiment.
These conclusions are of decisive importance in the subsequent argument. These configurations appear in the neutral atoms of elements occupying the final position in each period in fig. These considerations have obtained strong support through Moseleys important researches on the high frequency spectra of the elements. These considerations seem to be in conformity with expe- riments on absorption in gases. These considerations suggest an investigation of the nature of the perturbations in the orbit of the inner electron of the helium atom, due to the presence of the external electron. These considerations were not least confirmed by Kramers' explanation of the apparently capricious variations in the intensities of the Stark effect components of the hydrogen lines.
These deviations, the existence of which was not discovered until after the publication of the theory of atomic structure discussed above, correspond exactly to what one might expect from this theory. These difficulties are intimately connected with the radical departure from the ordinary ideas of mechanics and electrodynamics involved in the main principles of the quantum theory, and with the fact that it has not been possible hitherto to replace these ideas by others forming an equally consistent and developed structure. These difficulties become especially apparent when we consider the spectra of the elements.
These difficulties were further stressed during the discussions at the conference, at which reports on the experimental progress were given by experts such as Bridgman, Kamerlingh Onnes, Rosenhain and Hall, and the theoretical aspects of the situation were commented upon especially by Richardson, who also tentatively applied quantum theory on the lines utilized in atomic problems. These do not originate, as do series spectra, from individual atoms, but from molecules; and the fact that these spectra are so rich in lines is due to the complexity of the motion entailed by the vibrations of the atomic nuclei relative to each other and the rotations of the molecule as a whole.
These electrons may, therefore, in the normal state of the atom be regarded as moving in equivalent orbits characterized by the quantum symbol 11 . These embodied the so-called quantum theory. These experiments initiated a new stage of most important progress, during which both our knowledge of nuclear reactions and the mastery of accelerator techniques rapidly increased from year to year. These experiments provide a direct and independent proof of the reality of the distinctive stationary states, whose existence we were led to infer from the series spectra. These experiments were later continued by Strutt, and were extended to the case where the exciting line corresponded to the second line in the principal series.
These explanations involve more than the qualitative assumption of a discontinuous transformation of energy, for with the aid of Plancks constant h it seems to be possible, at least approximately, to account for a great number of phenomena about which nothing could be said previously. These expressions are extremely simple and they show that the magnitude of the frequency of revolution as well as the length of the major axis depend only on W , and are independent of the eccentricity of the orbit. These facts are shown in figure 4 which gives a survey of the stationary states corresponding to the arc spectra of sodium and potassium. These fall into two groups for which the direction of oscillation is either parallel with or perpendicular to the field.
These functions vary in a simple manner with n and in particular converge to zero for increasing values of n. The various series of lines are obtained from this formula by allowing the first term fk00 (n00 ) to remain constant, while a series of consecutive whole numbers are substituted for n0 in the second term fk0 (n0 ). These ideas, which were soon confirmed by the experiments of Franck and Hertz (1914) on the excitation of spectra by impact of electrons on atoms, involved a further renunciation of the causal mode of description, since evidently the interpretation of the spectral laws implies that an atom in an excited state in general will have the possibility of transitions with photon emission to one or another of its lower energy states.
These investigations contain without doubt important hints, but in reality the conditions must be very different for the different alkali spectra. These investigators have been able to establish the existence in the minerals investigated of appreciable quantities of an element with atomic number 72, the chemical properties of which show a great similarity to those of zirconium and a decided difference from those of the rare-earths. These investigators obtained their first important results from their experiments on mercury vapour, whose properties particularly facilitate such experiments. These investigators, however, assumed that the electrons do not move about the nucleus, but occupy positions of equilibrium.
These latter probabilities are assumed to be proportional to the intensity of the sur0 00 rounding radiation and are denoted by Bnn00 dt and Bnn0 dt respectively, where d denotes the amount of radiation in unit volume of the surrounding space distributed on frequen0 00 cies between and + d, while Bnn00 and Bnn0 are constants 0 which, like Ann00 , depend only on the stationary states under consideration. These letters correspond to the usual notations employed in spectroscopic literature and indicate the nature of the series (sharp series, principal series, diffuse series, etc.) These levels are formally referred to types of orbits characterized by two quantum numbers n and k, and certain definite rules for the possibilities of combination between the various levels have also been found.
These lines belong to the group of so-called K-lines, which are the most penetrating of the characteristic rays. These lines may be obtained by putting n1 = 4, n2 = 6, 8, 10, etc. These lines were therefore generally ascribed to hydrogen and were even thought by Rydberg to remove the apparent contrast between the simplicity of the hydrogen spectrum and the complexity of the spectra of other elements, including those of the alkalis, whose structure comes nearest to the hydrogen spectrum. These lines, however, can be accounted for on the present theory, if we ascribe them to helium.
These methods do not only remove the paradoxes involved in the attempts of picturing the course 'of radiative processes, but permit us also to account for the remarkable stability of atomic structures, exhibited not least by the complicated molecules of which the tissues in living organisms are built up. These methods, which govern our entire knowledge of physics and chemistry concern, just as do those of classical mechanics, in fact only systems for which it is possible in principle to specify what are to be regarded as the elementary constituents. These models constitute in certain respects a distinct advance, although they have not led to decisive results on questions of the stability of atomic structure. These momenta will just coincide with the quantities denoted above by I, I1 , .
These objections are intimately connected with the problem of the homogeneity of the radiation emitted. These particles named 'mesons' were first discovered in the so-called cosmic rays but are now being produced by the giant electric machines giving of the order of 1000 000 000 volts. These passages have therefore been omitted from the text; their substance is indicated in notes inserted in small print. These problems were instructively commented upon from different sides at the Solvay meeting, in the same session where Einstein raised his general objections. These properties depend on the motion of the electron system and the way in which this motion changes under the influence of different external actions.
These quantal laws determine the peculiar stability and reactions of atomic systems, and are thus ultimately responsible for the properties of matter on which our means of observation depend. These quantities will in the following be denoted by vk . These relations were later very successfully generalized by Ritz through the establishment of the combination principle. These relations-well known of the co-ordinate axes, which may be regarded as vector components of the wave number a = I /A in the directions from the theory of optical instruments, especially from of propagation. These remarks apply not least to biophysics and biochemistry, in which in our century we have witnessed such extraordinary progress.
These reports were followed by most instructive expositions by Louis de Broglie, Born and Heisenberg, as well as by Schrodinger, about the great advances as regards the consistent formulation of quantum theory, to which I have already alluded. These requirements are not in general fulfilled by such simple configurations as electronic rings and they force us to look about for possibilities of more complicated motions. These researches brought to light a remarkable and farreaching similarity between the Rontgen spectrum of a given element and the spectrum which would be expected to appear upon the binding of a single electron by the nucleus. These results agree with those of the familiar Lorentz theory. These results are represented in fig.
These results have been fully confirmed by experiment and correspond to the empirical rule of polarization, which Epstein proposed in his first paper on the Stark effect. These series are for example represented by formula (12) if, using two definite constants for k00 and k0 , n00 remains unaltered, while n0 assumes a series of successive, gradually increasing integral values. These show, as we know, a still greater mutual similarity in their chemical properties than the elements of the iron family. These so-called indeterminacy relations explicitly bear out the limitation of causal analysis, but it is important to recognize that no un ambiguous interpretation of such relations can be given in words suited to describe a situation in which physical attributes are objectified classically.
These states correspond to orbits where k is greater than or equal to 2, and where the last captured electron moves entirely outside the region where the first two electrons move. These states will be called the stationary states of the atoms, since we shall assume that the atom can remain a finite time in each state, and can leave this state only by a process of transition to another stationary state. These states will be denoted as the stationary states of the system. These stationary states are, in addition, supposed to possess a peculiar kind of stability, so that it is impossible either to add energy to or remove energy from the atom except by a process involving a transition of the atom into another of these states.
These symbols themselves, as is indicated already by the use of imaginary numbers, are not susceptible to pictorial interpretation; and even derived real functions like densities and currents are only to be regarded as expressing the probabilities for the occurrence of individual events observable under well-defined experimental conditions. These theories indeed represent merely idealizations of asymptotic validity in the limit where the actions involved in any stage of the analysis of the phenomena are large compared with the elementary quantum.
These transitions correspond to those harmonic components having frequencies 2 + , + and , and it is seen that only for the second transition do the amplitudes of the corresponding harmonic component differ from zero in the initial as well as in the final state. These values agree closely with the values calculated from the assumption E for the energies necessary to remove the electron from the hydrogen atom and to remove both electrons from the helium atom, viz. These were ascribed to an element with atomic number 72 assumed to be identical with an element of the rare-earth family, the existence of which in the preparation used had been presumed by Urbain many years ago.
These were transitions to the first and second states in the first row and to the first state in the third row, and the results of experiment indicate, as we saw, that the probability is greatest for the second transitions. They also discovered that as the voltage between the plates was increased the current rose to a maximum which they called the ' saturation value' and which depended only on the intensity of the radiation. They also suffer minute deflexions in such encounters which in the aggregate cause the so-called scattering or dispersion of a narrow beam of the particles. They are all not necessarily fundamental particles; some of them are probably complex in structure.
They are mainly investigated by their tracks in the emulsion of photographic plates of very fine grain and are produced, by using very big machines mainly in U.S.A. laboratories or the cosmic rays from nature's super cosmotrons situated in space among the stars. They are named /,t-mesons, iT-mesons, r-meson K-mesons, neutral and charged V-particles and hyperons. They came from an ionized helium atom which consists of a single electron moving about a nucleus with double charge. They concern the nature of the very near nuclear forces which hold the protons and neutrons together inside the nucleus.
They found that if sodium vapour is subjected to radiation from only one of the two components of the yellow line, the resonance radiation, at least at low pressures, consists only of this component. They have recently been examining the effects of a bombardment of light elements by protons. They may be regarded also as signifying that the group as a whole has no phase in 1: 3E and vdI= (E, the same sense as the elementary waves. They refer to certain characteristic features of the theory of atomic constitution. They that the accuracy of definition of the energy may be regarded also as signifying that the group momentum vector is- the same for the radiation as a whole has no phase in the same sense as the and the electron.
They used the fact that the hydrogen atom in a homogeneous electric field is a conditionally periodic system permitting a separation of variables by the use of parabolic coordinates. They went on with Zeleny to measure the velocity of the ions under electric forces and Rutherford measured their rate of recombination and its governing laws so that a good picture emerged of the whole process which led to his remark that 'Ions are jolly little beggars, you can almost see them'. They were important pioneer investigations. They were knit together in a closely integrated community by the exigencies of the long perilous voyage (over six months) and by the necessity for co-operation in facing the problems of settlement.
They were ultimately successful in April 1932 when a target of lithium was bombarded by 600 000 volt protons. Thinking of the very latest developments, a great advance has, as iswell known, been initiated by the bold suggestion by Lee and Yang in 1957 of the limited scope of the conservation of parity, verifiedby the beautiful experiments by Mrs Wu and her collaborators. This Rutherford Memorial Lecture has therefore offered a wel- come opportunity to give a more concise account of the actual develop- ment of the arguments in those years. This advance was largely facilitated by technical improvements in the microscopes for counting scintillations.
This agreement applies not only to the fine structure of the hydrogen lines which is very difficult to measure on account of the extreme proximity of the components, but it is also possible to account in detail for the fine structure of the helium lines given by formula (7) which has been very carefully investigated by Paschen. This agreement clearly gives us a connection between the spectrum and the atomic model of hydrogen, which is as close as could reasonably be expected considering the fundamental difference between the ideas of the quantum theory and of the ordinary theory of radiation.
This agreement would seem not only to support the validity of the above considerations but also to offer a direct support, independent of the equations (22), of the assumption that, for an atomic system possessing an axis of symmetry, the total angular momentum round this h axis is equal to an entire multiple of . This agrees most beautifully with the fact that J. J. Thomson in his wellknown experiments on rays of positive electricity has never observed a hydrogen atom with more than a single positive charge, while all other elements investigated may have several charges. This agrees very closely with the value calculated on the present theory for the energy necessary to remove one electron from the helium atom, viz., 29.3 volts.
This aim was first achieved in Dirac's quantum theory of radiation treating phases and amplitudes of the harmonic components of the fields as non-commuting variables. This allows us at once to draw certain important conclusions. This analogy offers another way of representing the present theorya way more similar to that used in my former paper. This analogy suggests another manner of presenting the theory, and it was just in this way that I was originally led into these considerations. This analogy, however, has been completely disturbed by Fowlers and Evans observations, that the two new series contain twice as many lines as is to be expected on this analogy.
This apparent disagreement, however, may possibly be explained by the assumption, that the ionization potential measured does not correspond to the removal of the electron from the atom but only to a transition from the normal state of the atom to some other stationary state where the one electron rotates outside the other, and that the ionization observed is produced by the radiation emitted when the electron falls back to its original position. This appears, for description depends entirely upon the small value example, clearly in the theory of relativity, which of the quantum of action as compared to the has been so fruitful for the elucidation of the actions involved in ordinary sense perceptions.
This applies not only to the series spectra and the close relationship of these to the chemical properties of the elements, but also to the Xray spectra, the consideration of which leads us into an investigation of interatomic processes of an entirely different character. This argument amounted to a serious challenge and gave rise to a thorough examination of the whole problem. This argumentation, following the lines of Rayleigh's analysis of thermal radiative equilibrium, led, however, to the well- known paradoxical result that no temperature equilibrium was possible, since the whole energy of the system would be gradually transferred to electromagnetic vibrations of steadily increasing frequencies.
This arises from the fact, that even though the electron only enters the inner configuration of the first ten electrons for short intervals during its revolution, this part of the orbit will nevertheless exert an essential influence upon the determination of the principal quantum number. This assumption had already been used as a basis for work on atomic structure and was first stated by van den Broek. This assumption implies, in the description of the state of these bodies, an essential latitude as to their momentum and energy which need not, of course, noticeably affect the velocities, if the diaphragm and the shutter are sufficiently heavy. This assumption is strongly confirmed by experiments on the elements of small atomic weight.
This assumption is very strongly supported by the result of Lorentzs calculations which have already been described. This assumption seems probable if we consider *Zoc. This assumption will be shown to be supported by the consideration of the intensities of the different components of the Stark-effect of the hydrogen lines, mentioned in the next Part.
This assumption would also seem to present itself directly from the point of view of the quantum theory, according to which the simple structure of the series spectrum is directly connected with the simple periodic character of the motion of the particles in the atom, while a spectrum of a complexity of the order exhibited by the many-line spectrum must be assumed to originate from a system the motion of which does not show such simple periodicity properties.
This assumption would also seem to present itself naturally from the point of view on the principles of the quantum theory, taken in the present paper.1 ) Thus it will in the first place be observed that any attempt to discriminate between the different states of the type in question, by means of considerations of the mechanical stability of stationary states for slow transformations of the external conditions, would fail on account of the essentially non-periodic character of the motion, which is irreconcilable with the idea of invariance of extra-mechanical conditions for such transformations.
This assumption, intro- through a new ingenious extension of the symbol- duced with striking success by Goudsmit and ical method and so to satisfy the relativity re- Vhlenbeck into the discussion of the origin of the quirement without abandoning the agreement with anomalous Zeeman effect, has proved most fruit- spectral evidence. This assumption, meet in this principle, so important for the problem of introduced with striking success by Goudsmit land atomic structure as well as for the recent development of D 90 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 91 statistical theories, with one among several possibilities, ori inate above all in the fact that, so to say, every word each of which fulfils the correspondence requirement.
This assumption, which may be denoted as the principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states, has been introduced in the quantum theory by Ehrenfest1 ) and is, as it will be seen in the following sections, of great importance in the discussion of the conditions to be used to fix the stationary states of an atomic system among the continuous multitude of mechanically possible motions. This assumption, which was first proposed by van den Broek, immediately suggests the possibility ultimately of deriving the explanation of the physical and chemical properties of the elements from their atomic numbers.
This assumptionwhich is in contrast to the assumptions used by Nicholson in his criticism of the present theorydoes not only seem supported by the measurements of the energy necessary to produce the spectra, but it is also strongly advocated by general reasons if we base our considerations on the assumption of stationary states. This atom contains only two electrons, and in the previous papers it was assumed that in the normal state of the atom the electrons rotate in a circular ring round a nucleus.
This author found that the different lines within each series appeared for slightly different voltages, higher voltages being necessary to produce the lines corresponding to higher values of , and he pointed out that the differences between the voltages observed were of the magnitude to be expected from the differences in the energies of the different stationary states calculated by (13). This author observed that if luminous hydrogen is placed in an intense electric field, each of the lines of the Balmer series is split up into a number of homogeneous components. This brings us at once out of those difficulties which apparently arise, when one attempts to account for the origin of the Xray spectra by means of an atomic structure, suited to explain the periodic system.
This brings us immediately to the question of the binding of the 11th electron in the atom. This calls for a high level of thinking and philosophy on the part of our leaders and corresponding level of understanding on the part of the community as a whole. This can be calculated on the kinetic theory to involve a temperature of some 20 000 000 degrees. This cannot only be anticipated from a simple calculation but is confirmed in a striking way from an examination of the series spectra. This case occurs if we consider configurations in which the electrons are arranged in different rings which do not rotate with the same frequency.
This case will therefore correspond to the most stable state of the system, i. e. will correspond to the binding of the electron for the breaking up of which the greatest amount of energy is required. This circum- before the necessity of the wave concept was realized. This circum- connected with the accuracy of the knowledge of stance removes also the apparent contradic- the energy of the colliding particle, and hence tions, arising in certain problems concerning the there can never be the possibility of a contradiction coherence of resonance nsiation, which have been with the law of conservation.
This circumstance SchrOdinger has regarded as 86 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 8'7 a support of his hope of constructing a pure wave theory limit of high quantum numbers these periods may be without referring to the quantum postulate. This circumstance Schrodinger has may be regarded simply as the limiting case of a regarded as a support of his hope of constructing a vanishing quantum of action.
This circumstance is intimately connected with the fact that, although the perturbed system under consideration is degenerate if we look apart from small quantities proportional to the square of the intensity of the external force, the degenerate character of the system does not reveal itself from the point of view of the theory of stationary states based on the conditions (22), because the system under consideration allows of separation of variables only in one set of positional coordinates. This circumstance justifies the assumption of of paradoxes of the kind mentioned, Campbell suggested 82 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 83 ' the view that the conception of time itself may be essen- particularly simple manner in a discussion of the Stern- tially statistical in nature.
This circumstance justifies the assumption of the In judging the possibilities of observation it must, supra-mechanical stability of the stationary states, on the whole, be kept in mind that the wave according to which the atom, before as well as after mechanical solutions can be visualised only in 80 an external influence, always will be found in a far as they can be described with the aid of the well-defined state, and which forms the basis for concept of free particles. This circumstance may afford, an explanation of the fact observed by Stark, viz.
This circumstance may be following consideration: On one hand, the co- regarded as a simple symbolical expression for the ordinates of a particle can be meagured with any complementary nature of the space-time descrip- desired degree of accuracy by using, for example, tion and the claims of causality. This circumstance was especially elucidated in the discussion of the measurability of electromagnetic field components raised by Landau and Peierls as a serious argument against the consistency of quantum field theory. This circumstance was used as an explanation of the non-appearance in experiments with vacuum-tubes of lines corresponding to the higher numbers in the Balmer series of the hydrogen spectrum.
This circumstance, at first sight paradoxical, finds its elucidation in the recognition that in this region it is no longer possible sharply to distinguish between the autonomous behavior of a physical object and its inevitable interaction with other bodies serving as measuring instruments, the direct consideration of which is excluded by the very nature of the concept of observation in itself (An). This circumstance, however, does not in itself imply any limitation in the application to biology of the well-established principles of atomic physics. This closed system is excluded. This complexity of the phenomenon, however, cannot be considered as inconsistent with the theory.
This complexity of the system of stationary states, compared with that of the hydrogen atom, might naturally be anticipated from the greater number of electrons in the heavier atoms, which render possible several different types of configurations of the particles. This concept led Einstein to his well-known theory of the photoelectric effect. This conception was, as is well known, to prepare the idea of antiparticles with opposite charge and reversed magnetic moment relative to the spin axis, proving to be a fundamental property of matter. This concerns the properties of the hitherto unknown element with 42 1 9 2 2 N . This conclusion seems consistent with experiments which show that the monatomic gases helium and argon are diamagnetic (see P. Tanzler, Ann.
This conclusion was consistent with Starks original measurements of the electric effect on the different series in the helium spectrum, and it has since been found to be in complete agreement with the later measurements for a great number of other spectral series. This conclusion would, however, if it could be maintained, place extraordinarily great, if not unsurmountable, difficulties in the way of the theory, since it would claim a change in the strength of the binding of the electrons with the atomic number which seems incompatible with the conditions of the quantum theory.
This conclusion, which is supported by observations on the fine structure of the hydrogen lines as well as on the Stark effect, is contrary to the suggestion, put forward by Sommerfeld with reference to the essential positive character of the Is, that every of the ns must remain constant or decrease under a transition. This condition forms therefore also an essential point in Burgers proof of the invariance of the conditions (22) for mechanical transformations. This condition is immediately seen to be fulfilled by all such systems in which the motion is of oscillating type i. e. where the moving particle during a period passes twice through any point of its orbit once in each direction.
This condition may be assumed to be intimately connected not only with the colour of the ions, but also with the tendency of the elements to form ions with different valencies. This condition shows, however, that it is not possible to employ the above formulae directly in calculating the orbit of the electron in a hydrogen atom. This condition was n first derived by Sommerfeld from his general theory for the determination of the stationary states of a central motion. This condition will be fulfilled in case of all the applications to spectral problems discussed below; it will be seen, however, that the extension to problems where this condition is not fulfilled will only necessitate small modifications in the following considerations. This condition will only be satisfied if c=~.
This condition will only be strictly satisfied if the forces which act upon the electron vary exactly as the inverse square of the distance from the nucleus, but this will not be the case for the outer electron in an atom containing more than one electron. This condition, though amply fulfilled in the phenomena of ordinary physical experience, does in no way hold for the behaviour of electrons in atoms, and it is indeed only the existence of the quantum of action which prevents the fusion of the electrons and the nucleus into a neutral massive corpuscle of practically infinitesimal extension.
This condition, which is equivalent with the second of Sommerfelds conditions (16), corresponds to (58) and is seen to coincide with the first of the conditions (61), while the second of the latter conditions in the special case under consideration loses its validity corresponding to the fact that the orientation of the plane of the orbit in space is obviously arbitrary. This condition, which is identical to the condition 2 2 e4 m , (12) h3 is in fact fulfilled, if we give to K its value as found from measurements on the hydrogen spectrum, and if for e, m and h we use the values obtained directly from experiment. This configuration is met for the first time in the neutral neon atom, which forms the conclusion of the second period in the system of the elements.
This configuration we shall assume to be the permanent state of the system if the electrons in this state are arranged in a single ring. This confirms in a striking manner our assumption that the absorption of the lines of the principal series of sodium results in final states of the atom in which one of the electrons revolves in larger and larger orbits. This connection was indeed emphasized with vigour and enthusiasm by Hans Christian 0rsted, who established the first regulated pharmaceutic examination in Denmark, and it was to him a constant source of inspiration in his fundamental scientific researches and his many-sided and fruitful activity in the Danish community.
This consists of an electrically charged particle which can execute harmonic oscillations about its position of equilibrium with a frequency independent of the amplitude. This constant is of course simply connected with the half-life period and its reciprocal is the average life of the atoms. This constitutes, however, only a formal difficulty of the same kind as that mentioned in Part I in connection with the discussion of the conditions (16), which fix the stationary states of a system consisting of a particle moving in a central field of force.
This cooperation proved ever more fruitful in the last decades, where the interpretation of the ordinary physical and chemical properties of the elements, based on specific ideas of atomic constitution, reached such a remarkable level of consistency and completion and where, at the same time, studies of the transformations of the very nucleus of the atom opened the quite new field of research which was to bear such great consequences. This correspondence between the frequencies determined by the two methods must have a deeper significance and we are led to anticipate that it will also apply to the intensities. This correspondence is of such a nature, that the present theory of spectra is in a certain sense to be regarded as a rational generalization of the ordinary theory of radiation.
This corresponds to a firmness of binding which is about six times less than for the electron in the normal state of the atom. This corresponds to the fact that the deviation of from unity, although several times greater than for the three first series, is much smaller for this series than for any other of the series examined by Stark. This corresponds to the observation that for these three series is very much nearer to unity than for any other series; even for the deviation of from 1 is less than one part in a thousand. This corresponds to the variation observed for the distances between the components of the double lines in the spectra of the alkali metals.
This crucial point, which was to become a main theme of the discussions reported in the following, implies the impossibility of any sharp separation between the behaviour of atomic objects and the interaction with the measuring instruments which serve to define the conditions under which the phenomena appear. This deformation will in course of time be considerable even if the external electric force is very small compared with the force of attraction between the particles. This determines the orientation of the orbit of the outer electron relative to the axis of the inner system. This development brings in new features, in that the development of the electron group with 4-quantum orbits comes to a standstill, so to speak, until the 3-quantum group has reached its fmal closed form.
This development finds its characteristic expression in the occurrence of the peculiar family of elements in the 6th period, known as the rare-earths. This development has essentially clarified the conditions foran objective account in atomic physics, involving the elimination of subjective judgment. This development originates from PLANCK's epoch-making discovery of the elementary quantum of action which disclosed an unsuspected limitation of the ideas of natural philosophy relied upon since the birth of science. This development reminds indeed the elders among us of the gradual clarification of the electronic constitution of the atom in the first decades after Rutherford's funda- mental discovery.
This deviation from a Keplerian motion is, however, very small compared with the perturbations due to the presence of external forces, such as occur in experiments on the Zeeman and Stark effects. This difference exists both in the development of our ideas about the structure of the atom and in the manner in which these ideas are used in explaining the spectra. This difference is at once explained by the fact that the firmness by which the last captured electron is bound in its 21 orbit in the lithium atom is only about a third of that with which the electron in the hydrogen atom is held, and almost five times smaller than the firmness of the binding of the electrons in the helium atom. This difference is so little that it would not be recognizable in a diagram on the same scale as fig.
This difficulty has been felt to such an extent that it has led Sommerfeld for example in his recent work to assume that the configurations of the electrons in the various atoms of one and the same element may be different even under usual conditions. This disappears, however, if we notice that an integral of the type under consideration will not be altered by a change of coordinates in which q is replaced by some function of this variable. This discovery of X-rays was not quite the isolated accident which is sometimes made out. This discovery of the electron and elucidation of its properties was the result of the work of a large number of investigators, among whom Lenard and J. J. Thomson may be particularly mentioned. This discovery was of great importance in several respects.
This discovery, which gave such a convincing confirmation of Ruther- ford's atomic model, was not entirely unexpected. This discovery, which revealed a feature of atomicity in the laws of nature going far beyond the old doctrine of the limited divisibility of matter, has indeed taught us that the classical theories of physics are idealisations which can be unambiguously applied only in the limit where all actions involved are large compared with the quantum. This early settlement was a private enterprise venture of the New Zealand Company in which, thanks to Henry Gibbon Wakefield, there was much practical idealism, albeit accompanied in the prospectus by rashly optim-istic statements- probably not deliberately so-but tempting to would-be settlers.
This effect of a magnetic field upon the doublets of the alkali spectrum is of interest in showing the intimate relation of the components and confirms the reality of the simple explanation of the general structure of the spectra of the alkali metals. This element therefore ought to be the last in the sequence of consecutive elements with similar properties in the first half of the sixth period, and at the place 72 an element must be expected which in its chemical and physical properties is homologous with zirconium and thorium. This entails, however, that in the regions of the atom. This entails, upon the use of imaginary arithmetic quantities.
This equation forms a simple generalisation of (8), and in the general case in which a separation of variables will be possible only for one system of coordinates leading to a complete definition of the Is it might have been deduced directly from the analytical theory of the periodicity properties of the motion of a conditionally periodic system, based on the introduction of angle-variables.1 ) From (29) it follows moreover that, if the system allows of a separation of variables in an infinite continuous multitude 1 ) See Charlier, Die Mechanik des Himmels, Bd. This equation forms a simple relation between the variations in E and I for periodic systems, which will be often used in the following. This equation is entirely analogous to Plancks assumption concerning the energy of a resonator.
This excited radioactivity, as he called it, decayed with time according to the same exponential law as the emanation, but falling to half value in about eleven hours. This expectation is completely confirmed by the spectra of the alkali metals. This expectation is verified by Paschens observations of the fine structure of the helium lines, which show that, for a given line, the components corresponding to the transitions of the former kind are by far the strongest. This expectation seems supported by recent work on the spectrum of manganese by Catalan, which appeared just before the printing of this essay.
This explanation of the combination principle is seen to differ fundamentally from the usual ideas of electrodynamics, as soon as we consider that there is no simple relation between the motion of the atom and the radiation sent out. This explanation of the origin of the hydrogen spectrum leads us quite naturally to interpret this spectrum as the manifestation of a process whereby the electron is bound to the nucleus. This expression is directly obtained, if we remember that n = n1 +n2 +n3 and if we count each state, characterised by a given combination of the positive integers n1 , n2 , n3 , as double, corresponding to the two possible opposite directions of rotation of the electron round the axis of the field. This expression is the same as that deduced in paper IV.
This expression might also have been deduced directly from the condition I = nh by considering, for instance, a circular orbit, in which case the calculation can be very simply performed. This extremely simple ringconfiguration might be expected to correspond to the firmest possible binding of the electrons in the atom, and it was on this account proposed as a model for the helium atom in my first paper on atomic structure. This fact gives a point of departure for a choice between the numerous possibilities which present themselves when considering the formation of the atoms by the successive capture and binding of the electrons. This fact gives probably a direct explanation of the marked difference existing between the spectra of aluminium and scandium.
This fact is all the more remarkable, since in Sommerfelds theory the arrangement of the energy values of the stationary states in rows has no special relation to the possibility of transition between these states. This fact obtains a simple interpretation on the considerations in Part I on page 64 about the influence of small external forces on the spectrum of a conditionally periodic system. This fact, which has a most important bearing on the stability of the atom, leads to a peculiar result as regards the binding of the 11th electron. This fine structure is due to the fact, that taking into account the variation of mass with velocity the orbit of the electron deviates a little from a simple ellipse and is no longer exactly periodic.
This follows already from the fact that the s will depend on the values for the constants 1 , . This follows from the fact that the Hamiltonian equations (4), which are taken as a basis for all the previous calculations, may be used to describe the motion also in this case. This follows immediately from the fact that the angular momentum in transformations of this type remains invariant, and that the equations of motion for the radial coordinate as long as p2 remains constant are the same as for a system of one degree of freedom. This form appears to me to be especially suited for future work in the theory of spectra, since it allows of an immediate insight into problems for which the methods mentioned above fail on account of the complexity of the motions in the atom.
This formalism of quantum mechanics was soon proved by Schrdinger to give results identical with those obtainable by the mathematically often more convenient methods of wave theory, and in the following years general methods were gradually established for an essentially statistical description of atomic processes combining the features of individuality and the requirements of the superposition principle, equally characteristic of quantum theory. This formula was even capable of expressing, with an approximation that could not be without significance, the frequencies of the strongest X-ray lines, if small whole numbers were substituted for n' and n''.
This frequency v has, however, no simple relation to the motion of the particles of the atom, but is given by the relation where h is Planck's constant, and E' and E" are the values of the energy of the atom in the two stationary states that form the initial and final state of the radiation process. This function will be a many valued function of the qs which increases by Ik if qk describes one oscillation between its limits and comes back to its original value while the other qs remain constant.
This fund provides for post-graduate training and research of selected young men and women but its Committee is also charged with the duty of arranging for the delivery of annual lectures in the Commonwealth countries in turn and dealing with some aspect of Rutherford's life or developments of the scientific work he inaugurated. This fundamental combination law obviously defied ordinary mechanical interpretation, and it is interesting to recall how in this connection Lord Rayleigh had pertinently stressed that any general relationship between the frequencies of the normal modes of vibration of a mechanical model would be quadratic and not linear in these frequencies. This gives E constant, and from (6) we get therefore E = I, (8) 1 where = is the frequency of the motion.
This gives X = 23 t+ C0001 ,2 cos 2 (1 1 +2 2 )t+c000 1 ,2 , (33) 1 00 C is the mean frewhere the positive constant 3 = 2 0,0 quency of rotation round the axis of symmetry of the system. This gives rise to a more complicated ensemble of stationary states. This gives rise to a negative chlorine ion with a configuration of 18 electrons similar to that occurring in the neutral argon atom. This happens, for example, when the variations of the orbit with respect to time are periodic. This has become clear from various sides by the lack of agreement of the theory with experiment. This has been pointed out by Sommerfeld and Debye. This has been principally emphasized by Vegard, 36 I 9 2 2 N .
This holds especially for the orbit with subordinate quantum number 1, which, as a closer investigation shows, will approach nearer to the nucleus than any of the previously bound electrons. This hypothesis, which was first stated by van den Broek (1912), opens the possibility of obtaining a simple explanation of the periodic system. This idea of the atom, which is due principally to Rutherfords fundamental researches on radioactive substances, exhibits extremely simple features, but just this simplicity appears at first sight to present difficulties in explaining the properties of the elements.
This idea, which reminds one of the attempts to avoid divergency difficulties in classical electron theory, is especially suggested by the use of short-range fields whichhas been found necessary in the theory of nuclear constitution. This idea, which was soon convincingly confirmed by experiments on electron interference phenomena, was at once greeted by Einstein, who had already envisaged the deep- going analogy between the properties of thermal radiation and of gases in the so-called degenerate state. This implies a neglect of terms proportional to the square of the magnetic force.
This implies that the fine structure will change its character completely, but the hydrogen spectrum will continue to consist of lines that are given to a close approximation by the Balmer formula, due to the fact that the approximately periodic character of the motion will be retained. This includes a wave- and has proved to be of decisive importance for the great mechanical formulation of the adiabatic principle of progress in atomic physics during the last years. This includes a wave- theory, depends essentially upon the use of mechanical formulation of the adiabatic principle imaginary arithmetic quantities. This indicates that the components are produced independently of each othera result to be expected if they correspond to quite different orbits of the electron.
This influence will, as we at once see, be least for the inner parts of the atom, where for each electron the attraction of the nucleus is large in proportion to the repulsion of the other electrons. This ingenious attack on the ables can simultaneously be observed. This interpretation has been found to agree with more recent information. This investigator also assumed that the lines were hydrogen lines, because there existed no experimental evidence from which it might be inferred that two different substances could show properties resembling each other so much as the spectrum in question and that of hydrogen.
This involved the discussion of the relative probability of the various possible transitions which can start from that state corresponding to the second term in the second row of the figure on p. 46. This involves the wellknown result that for a system of particles having a periodic motion of frequency , the displacement of the particles in a given direction in space may be represented as a function of the time by a trigonometric series of the form X = C cos 2( t + c ), (11) where the summation is to be extended over all positive integral values of .
This involves, in the expression for the additional energy of the system, the neglect of small terms of the same order as the product of the intensity of the external forces with the ratio between the mass of the electron and the mass of the nucleus, but due to the smallness of the latter ratio the error introduced by this simplification will be of no importance in the comparison of the results with the measurements. This is a consequence of the large orbits of the electron in the stationary states corresponding to high values of The lines of the ordinary hydrogen spectrum from a vacuum-tube also appear as close doublets with high dispersion.
This is a direct consequence of the necessity of accounting for the functions of the 4 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE measuring instruments in purely classical terms, excluding in principle any regard to the quantum of action. This is a simple logical demand, since by the word "experiment" we can only mean a procedure regarding which we are able to communicate to others what we have done and what we have learnt. This is a simple logical demand, since the word "experiment" can in essence be used only in referring to a situation where we can tell others what we have done and what we have learned.
This is also in conformity with experiments on the emission spectrum of sodium; in the principal series of the emission spectrum of this substance * A. Einstein, Ann, d. _Phys.xv~i.p~ 146 (1905). This is also indicated by the fact that the distance between the components observed increases with the number of the line, contrary to the behaviour of ordinary double lines. This is also what we should expect. This is an immediate consequence of the fact, mentioned in the former section, that the stationary states of the perturbed system are characterised by a greater number of extra-mechanical conditions than the stationary states of the undisturbed system.
This is completely analogous to the fact that the hydrogen spectrum as it is usually observed is not noticeably affected by small forces, even when they are large enough to produce a great change in the form and position of the orbit of the electron. This is confirmed by the spectra of these elements. This is connected with the the electric density associated with the wave-field in a circumstance that from characteristic vibrations with similar way to that by which the probability of the pre- only a few nodes no wave packages can be built up which sence of a light quantum is given by the energy density would even approximately represent the motion of a of the radiation. This is directly indicated by the spectra and ionization potentials.
This is directly related to the fact that the motion of the electron in the first part of the orbit deviates only a little from the motion which each of the previously bound electrons in 21 orbits executes during a complete revolution. This is due to the circumstance, that the perturbed atom forms a degenerate system if we look apart from the effect of the relativity modifications, because the secular perturbations are simply periodic. This is due to the fact that the motion will be simply periodic, provided the distance between the parts of the system will not increase infinitely with the time, a case which for obvious reasons cannot represent a stationary state in the sense defined above.
This is easily performed if we assume that the presence of the inner electrons simply produces a uniform rotation of the orbit of the outer electron in its plane. This is equivalent to the statement that, when the quantum numbers are large, the relative probability of a particular transition is connected in a simple manner with the amplitude of the corresponding harmonic component in the motion. This is especially evident from Jeans investigations (1905) in which he employed a very interesting statistical method first proposed by Lord Rayleigh. This is exactly what we should expect according to the analogy in question, and, as we shall see, a closer consideration of the above experiments allows us to trace the analogy still further. This is exactly what we should expect.
This is hardly to be wondered at when we remember that they have not proved adequate to account for the phenomena of radiation which are connected with the intimate interaction between the electric and magnetic forces arising from the motion of the electrons. This is in agreement with Starks experiments On the present point of view a line of the Diffuse series of the helium spectrum corresponds to a transition between two stationary states, one of which is affected by the presence of an electric field, and the other not: while for the hydrogen lines both states were assumed to be affected by the field. This is in beautiful agreement with our picture of the phenomenon.
This is in contrast to the elements of the first periods where the charge of the ions in aqueous solutions is always the same for one and the same element. This is indicated by the extraordinarily complicated structure of many of the observed spectra. This is indicated not only by the similar part played by the two states in the experiments on the resonance radiation of sodium vapour, but is also shown in a very instructive manner by the peculiar effect of magnetic fields on the doublets. This is just what would be expected on the above considerations.
This is largely due to the fact that the structures of combinations of atoms of the same element and of many organic compounds do not have the same significance for our purpose as those molecular structures in which the individual atoms occur as electrically charged ions. This is no objection, however, since it is assumed already that the mechanics do not hold for the transition between two stationary states.
This is not only immediately indicated by the principle of correspondence,since the frequency of revolution is determined only by the energy and not by the eccentricity,but also by the fact that the presence of any small external forces will in general, in the course of time, produce a finite change in the position as well as in the eccentricity of the periodic orbit, while in the major axis it can produce only small changes proportional to the intensity of the perturbing forces. This is not surprising, since it is to be anticipated that the effect of the inner electrons on the spectrum could not be accounted for in such a simple manner.
This is of course not the case, even though it holds to a very close approximation; for a hydrogen atom the ratio of the mass of the nucleus to that of the electron will be about 1850 and for a helium atom four times as great. This is of great importance, since it represents the first instance in which the quantum theory was applied to a phenomenon of nonstatistical character. This is par- that the resulting additional statistical element will not ticularly to be remembered when comparing the results influence the uncertainty in the description of the object. This is particularl to be: tioned, concerned with a characteristic application of the remembered when cons1dering the passage of swiftly quantum postulate.
This is particularly exact knowledge of the wave-length is immaterial to be remembered when comparing the results of for the above estimate, it will be realised that for successive observations. This is particularly field, is at least equal to the quantum of action. This is particularly to be borne in mind in special case of a simple harmonic vibrator, he was able judging the radical departure from the causal description to show that such wave-groups will keep together even of Nature met with in radiation phenomena, to which we for any length of time, and will oscillate to and fro in a have referred above in connection with the excitation of manner corresponding to the classical picture of the spectra.
This is particularly which we have been concerned ly in the to be borne in mind in judging the radical departure case of free particles. This is perhaps most clearly shown by some very instructive calculations on the energy of/3-particles emitted from radioactive substances recently published by Rutherford*. This is primarily found expression in the wave theory of matter, due to the circumstance that in these questions that the position of the centre of gravity of a body no closer description of the space-time behaviour and its total momentum can only be defined of the processes is required.
This is probably connected with the fact that the last elements in the system are radioactive and that nuclei of atoms with a total charge greater than 92 will not be sufficiently stable to exist under conditions where the elements can be observed. This is supported by the measurements of the arc spectrum of rubidium and the spark spectrum of strontium. This is the case in the problem of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines, which is due to the effect of the small variation of the mass of the electron with its velocity, as well as in the problems of the characteristic effects of external electric and magnetic fields on the hydrogen lines.
This is the reason why it is possible to tion means thatin the limit of large quantum numbers '\ draw conclusions concerning the properties of radiation , where N the relative difference between adjacent stationary by using classical electrodynamics. This is very closely related to the fact, mentioned above, that the noncircular orbits will correspond to a firmer binding than the circular orbits having the same value for the principal quantum number, since the electrons will at certain moments penetrate much farther into the interior of the atom. This is very different from what would be expected if it were possible to describe the effect of the inner electron by a central force varying in a simple manner with the distance. This is what we should expect according to the above.
This is what would be expected, if by the collision the atom was transferred from the normal state to the first one in the second row. This is, however, only approximately true. This lack of symmetry has its origin in the configuration of the two innermost electrons and transmits itself to the outer parts of the atomic structure, since the 21 orbits penetrate partly into the region of these electrons.
This last circumstance is in fact quite analogous to the renunciation of the control of the momentum of the fixed diaphragm in the experimental arrangement discussed above, and depends in the last resort on the claim of a purely classical account of the measuring apparatus, which implies the necessity of allowing a latitude corresponding to the quantum-mechanical uncertainty relations in our description of their behavior. This last circumstance is in fact quite presence of more than one slit in the second analogous to the renunciation of the control of diaphragm would give rise in case the positions the momentum of the fixed diaphragm in the of all apparatus are fixed relative to each other.
This last question has been more closely investigated by Kramers, and the accompanying figure will give some impression of how completely it is possible to account for the phenomenon under consideration. This latitude must obviously again be smaller than the total impulse which, during the whole interval T of the balancing procedure, can be given by the gravitational field to a body with a mass Dm, or Dp approx= h / Dq T . This layer commences with scandium and is completed exactly at the end of the family of iron metals.
This leads again to certain general considerations about the connection between the probability of a transition between any two stationary states and the motion of the system in these states, which will be shown to throw light on the question of the polarisation and intensity of the different lines of the spectrum of a given system. This led the Curies ultimately to the discovery of radium and of polonium by chemical separation from the pitchblende. This lesson, familiar to mathematicians, and conspicuous in studies of the foundations of their science, has been enforced by the development of physics in a way that has a bearing on ...
This limitation appears not only as an immediate consequence of the commutation relations between such variables, but also directly reflects the interaction between the system under observation and the tools of measurement. This material is drawn mainly from the accurate measurements of Siegbahn and his collaborators. This may account tbr the different sets of series in the line spectra emitted from the * W. Ritz, 2@~.
This may be considered as a very important result, because we may say, that the quantum theory, which for the first time has offered a simple interpretation of the fundamental principle of combination of spectral lines has at the same time removed the mystery which has hitherto adhered to the application of this principle on account of the apparent capriciousness of the appearance of predicted combination lines. This may be regarded as an immediate consequence of the nature of the fixation of the stationary states in the quantum theory. This may be seen from Sommerfelds formula (11).
This may more accurately be denoted as a system under constant external conditions, and the question next arises about the variation in the stationary states which may be expected to take place during a variation of the external conditions, e. g. when exposing the atomic system to some variable external field of force. This may no doubt be ascribed to a simple symmetrical structure present in the cuprous ion similar to that in the sodium ion, although the great difference in the constitution of the outer group of electrons in these ions is shown both by the considerable difference in the values of the spectral terms and in the separation of the doublets in the P terms of the two spectra.
This means that an electron which belongs to one of the inner groups of the atom, as a consequence of an absorption processbesides the case where it leaves the atom completelycan only go over either to an incompleted group, or to an orbit where the electron during the greater part of its revolution moves at a distance from the nucleus large compared to the distance of the other electrons. This means that the variable terms of the principal series are not simple but are represented by two values slightly different from one another. This means that, using polar coordinates, the values of 1 and 2 in (22) which for the first state are equal to 1 = 2 = 1, will be for the second state 1 = 2 and 2 = 1.
This memorandum, dated March 24, 1945, contains, besides remarks which have no interest today, the following passages : Above all, it should be appreciated that we are faced only with the beginning of a development and .that, probably within the very near future, means will be found to simplify the methods of production of the active sub- stances and intensify their effects to an extent which may permit any nation possessing great industrial resources to command powers of destruction surpassing all previous imagination.
This might, however, be explained by the fact that the systems emitting the spectrum, in contrast to those emitting the hydrogen spectrum, are supposed to carry an excess positive charge, and therefore must be expected to acquire great velocities in the electric field in the discharge-tube. This motion, as we have seen, may be resolved into a plane periodic motion upon which a uniform rotation is superposed in the plane of the orbit; only the superposed rotation will in this case be comparatively much more rapid and the deviation of the periodic orbit from an ellipse much greater than in the case of the hydrogen atom.
This multitude will be seen to include all possible stationary states of the perturbed system, which satisfy (22), and the motion of which differs at any moment only slightly from some stationary motion of the undisturbed system, satisfying (24) for the given value of n. Denoting the value of the energy of the undisturbed system in such a state by En , and the value of the energy of the perturbed system in a state belonging to the multitude under consideration by En + E, we get from (42) E = s1 X vk Ik (43) 1 for the energy difference between two neighbouring states of this multitude. This must be ascribed to the fact that we have here to do with the development of an electron group that lies deeper in the atom.
This must be assumed to be due not only to the great firmness in the binding of the electrons but also to be an essential consequence of the symmetrical configuration of the electrons. This must be because the parameter of the orbit of the outer electron in the stationary states corresponding to the terms of the sharp series is not much greater than the linear dimensions of the orbits of the inner electrons. This must result in making the value a little too large, but on account of the complexity of the problem no attempt at that time was made to obtain a more exact determination of the energy.
This must the absorption of a few light quanta, or perhaps certainly not be taken to mean that in actual of only a single quantum, on such a retinal partiatomic phenomena we meet with features which tion is sufficient to produce a sight impression, show a closer resemblance to the properties of the sensitiveness of the eye may even be said to living organisms than do ordinary physical effects. This naturally simplifies the problem considerably, but it is nevertheless sufficiently difficult and it is remarkable that it has been possible to make any advance at all in this direction.
This necessity of discriminating in each ex- Especially, the singular position of measuring perimental arrangement between those parts of instruments in the account of quantum phe- the physical system considered which are to be nomena, just discussed, appears closely analo- treated as measuring instruments and those gous to the well-known necessity in relativity which constitute the objects under investigation theory of upholding an ordinary description of may indeed be said to form a principal distinction all measuring processes, including a sharp dis- between classical and quantum-mechanical descrip- tinction between space and time coordinates, tion of physical phenomena.
This necessity of discriminating in each experimental arrangement between those parts of the physical system considered which are to be treated as measuring instruments and those which constitute the objects under investigation may indeed be said to form a principal distinction between classical and quantum-mechanical descri ption of physical phenomena It is tr. This new knowledge seems to usher in a fresh era-the atomic age-with all its social, economic and political consequences. This new series was of the same general type, the wave length being given approximately by 1 1 1 =R 3 2 . This novel feature is not only entirely foreign to the classical theories of mechanics and electromagnetism, but is even irreconcilable with the very idea of causality.
This number coincides approximately with the number of the particular element in the periodic system and it is therefore natural to assume that the number of electrons in the atom is exactly equal to this number. This number determines the energy of the atom and also the major axis of the orbit of the electron, but not its eccentricity. This occurs at a place in the periodic system where the third stage in the development of an electronic group with 5quanta orbits, indicated by the outer frame, has already begun.
This occurs if for the original perturbed periodic system, due to some peculiarity of the motion, some of the coefficients C,t1 ,..., ts1 in the expressions (65) for the displacements of the particles as a sum of harmonic vibrations, corresponding to certain combinations of the numbers , t1 , . This occurs if the expression for the total energy E in Hamiltons equations (4) for a system of s degrees of freedom can be written as a sum E1 + + Es , where Ek contains qk and pk only. This peculiar relation suggests a general law for the occurrence of transitions between stationary states.
This phase of the development was, as is well known, initiated in 1927 by Heisenberg, who pointed out that the knowledge obtainable of the state of an atomic system will always involve a peculiar "indeterminacy." This phenomenon afforded, as is well known, a most direct proof of the adequacy of Einstein's view regarding the transfer of energy and momentum in radiative processes; at the same time, it was equally clear that no simple picture of a corpuscular collision could offer an exhaustive description of the phenomenon. This phenomenon exhibits a complete analogy with the photoelectric effect from an illuminated metal plate in which, by using light of a suitable frequency, electrons of any velocity can be obtained.
This phenomenon is entirely analogous to the appearance of the socalled combination tones in acoustics. This phenomenon, which had been entirely unexplainable on the classical theory, was thereby placed in a quite different light, and the predictions of Einstein's theory have received such exact experimental confirmation in recent years, that perhaps the most exact determination of Planck's constant is afforded by measurements on the photoelectric effect. This picture of atomic structure contains many features that were brought forward by the work of earlier investigators. This point has been especially emphasized by Vegard.
This point is of great logical consequence, since it is only the circumstance that we are presented with a choice of either tracing the path of a particle or observing interference effects, which allows us to escape from the paradoxical necessity of concluding that the behaviour of an electron or a photon should depend on the presence of a slit in the diaphragm through which it could be proved not to pass. This point is of importance in the theory of the spectra of elements of higher atomic number, since, as we shall see, the effect of the forces originating from the inner electrons may to a first approximation be compared with that of a perturbing central field.
This point is of the greatest importance in judging the reality of the theory, since the justification for employing considerations, relating to the formation of atoms by successive capture of electrons, as a guiding principle for the investigation of atomic structure might appear doubtful if such considerations could not be brought into natural agreement with views on the reorganization of the atom after a disturbance in the normal electronic arrangement. This point may be denoted as the electrical centre of the orbit. This point will be discussed more closely in Kramers paper on the relative intensities of the components of the fine structure and the Stark effect of the hydrogen lines.
This polarization, as well as the observed intensity differences of the two components, would be explained if we can assume that for some reason, when the atom is in rapid motion, there is a greater probability for the orbit of the electron to lie behind the nucleus rather than in front of it. This position he occupied for the next 18 years until his death in 1937. This prediction was confirmed a few years later by Eva von Bahr, and the phenomenon may still be regarded as one of the most striking evidences of the reality of the quantum theory, even though from our present point of view the original explanation has undergone a modification in essential details.
This principle of correspondence at the same time throws light upon a question mentioned several times previously, namely the relation between the number of quantum numbers, which must be used to describe the stationary states of an atom, and the types to which the orbits of the electrons belong. This principle was originally discovered by Ritz to hold for the ordinary series spectra of the elements. This problem has been treated in detail by Kramers in a recently published dissertation. This problem has recently been discussed by Sommerfeld,1 ) who in this connection emphasises the importance of the different a-priori probabilities of the stationary states, characterised by different sets of values of the ns in the conditions (16).
This problem is closely analogous to the problem, briefly discussed in Part I, of the effect of a small perturbing field on the spectrum of an ordinary conditionally periodic system which allows of separation of variables. This problem, however, will not be considered further at this stage. This problem, which originally was dis- cussed by J. J. Thomson from the point of view of his own atomic model, had just been re-examined by Darwin on the basis of the Rutherford model. This procedure prevents a fixation of such quantities to the extent QUANTUM PHYSICS AND PHILOSOPHY 3 which would be required for the deterministic description of classical physics, but allows us to determine their spectral distribution as re- vealed by evidence about atomic processes.
This process wiI1 go on until the dimensions o[ the orbit are of the same order of magni- tude as the dimensions of the electron or those of the nucleus. This process would not stop until the particles had approached so closely to one another that they no longer attracted each other. This proof of the material nature of the oc-particles gave definiteness to the dis- integration theory by suggesting a more reasonable explanation of the complete alteration of chemical properties of atoms after transformation.
This property of the perturbations follows already from some calculations given by Schwarzschild1 ) in a previous attempt to explain the Stark effect of the hydrogen lines, without the help of the quantum theory, by means of a direct consideration of the harmonic vibrations into which the motion may be resolved, according to the analytical theory of conditionally periodic systems. This quantum number which will always be denoted by n will therefore be called the principal quantum number. This ques- means of a rational quantum-theoretical tran- tion has been more closely investigated in a recent scription of the general field theory, in which the paper by Darwin (Proc. This question has been discussed by several physicists.
This question has been more closely tion the ade uate is limited 0 1y investigated in a recent paper by Darwin which contains b the restricted oss iil definiti a number of instructive examples of the behaviour of servation. This question will be treated in greater detail in a paper under preparation, where the writer will in particular discuss a very interesting paradox suggested by Einstein concerning the application of gravitation theory to energy measurements, and the solution of which offers an especially instructive illustration of the generality of the argument of complementarity.
This question will be treated in greater in quantum theory, as we have seen, has its root detail in a paper under preparation, where the writer will in particular discuss a very interesting paradox suggested by in the indispensable use of classical concepts in Einstein concerning the application of gravitation theory the interpretation of all proper measurements, to energy measurements, and the solution of which offers an especially instructive illustration of the generality of the even though the classical theories do not suffice argument of complementarity. This radiation would be of a sufficiently high frequency to ionize any impurity which may be present in the helium gas, and also to liberate electrons from the metal part of the apparatus.
This recognition of the wide scope of arguments implying the use of a superposition principle similar to that of classical electromagnetic which was only implicitly contained in the matrix formula- field theory, tion ofquantum mechanics, meant a great advance in the treatment of atomic problems. This recognition, however, in no way points to any limitation of the scope of the quantum-mechanical description, and the trend of the whole argumentation presented in the Como lecture was to show that the viewpoint of complementarity may be regarded as a rational generalisation of the very ideal of causality.
This relation can be verified by means of a consideration based on the perturbation equations (44), which takes into account the simple relation between 1 and I for the undisturbed system, as well as the relation between the mean rate of variation of 1 with the time and the difference between P and . This relation has been shown to hold to within the considerable accuracy with which, especially through the beautiful investigations of Millikan, the quantities e, m, and h are known. This relationship with the hydrogen spectrum leads us immediately to regard these spectra as the last step of a process whereby the neutral atom is built up by the capture and binding of electrons to the nucleus, one by one.
This remarkable similarity between the structure of these types of spectra and the simple spectra given by (2) and (7) is explained simply by assuming the arc spectra to be connected with the last stage in the formation of the neutral atom consisting in the capture and binding of the N th electron. This represented a radical departure from previous conceptions since it was the first instance in which the assumption of a discontinuity was employed in the formulation of the general laws of nature. This requires 17/8 as much work to remove a single electron as is necessary to remove an electron from the hydrogen atom in its normal state. This requires a further investigation of the interaction between the motions of the electrons in the two types of 2quanta orbits.
This requires, however, that to use the general solution of the wave equation which e duration of the ce s is s O ith the is obtained by superposition of characteristic solutions. This result allows an immediate explanation of the main features of the chemical properties and the spectrum of potassium. This result could, of course, also be obtained directly by noticing that, due to the limited extension of the wave-field at the place of the slit, the component of the wave-number parallel to the plane of the diaphragm will involve a latitude Ds approx= (1/a) approx= (1/Dq). This result encourages us to make an attempt to obtain a clear conception of the stationary states which have so far only been regarded as formal.
This result follows also directly from Larmors theorem, on which the simple considerations about the effect of a homogeneous magnetic field in the beginning of this section were based. This result has been pointed out by Sommerfeld as a consequence of the application of the conditions (16). This result is also in complete agreement with that obtained by Sommerfeld and Debye. This result is closely connected with the fact that the binding of the second electron can occur in two different ways, as is shown by the occurrence of two distinct spectra.
This result may also be expressed by stating, that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to the square of the external forces, the mean value of the inner energy taken over an approximate period of the perturbed motion will be equal to the energy possessed by the system before the establishment of the perturbing field. This result may be simply interpreted on the basis of the general formal relation between the quantum theory of line spectra and the ordinary theory of radiation. This result must appear very astonishing on the ordinary ideas of resonance, since, as Strutt pointed out, no rational connection exists between the frequencies of the first and second lines of the principal series.
This result must evidently be explained by supposing the atom to be electrically neutral in these states and one electron to be moving round the nucleus in an orbit the dimensions of which are very large in proportion to the distance of the other electrons from the nucleus. This result of Cockcroft and Walton led to the construction in other parts of the world of more powerful voltage machines and other similar devices for accelerating ordinary protons, deuterons (2H) and helium nuclei, notably the first cyclotron of Lawrence in California. This result of Rutherford's was the first observation made of artificial trans- formation of one element into another 'the deliberate transformation of matter'.
This result seems to be supported by observations on the absorption-spectra of diatomic gases, showing that certain strong absorption-lines, which according to general evidence may be ascribed to vibrations of the two atoms in the molecule relative to each other, are not accompanied by lines of the same order of intensity and corresponding to entire multipla of the frequency, such as it should be expected from (1) if the system had any considerable tendency to pass between non-successive states. This result shows that there exists a connexion between the hydrogen spectrum and the model for the hydrogen atom which, on the whole, is as close as we might hope considering the departure of the postulates from the classical mechanical and electrodynamic laws.
This result was at once welcomed by Fowler, who took the opportunity of pointing out that, also in the spectra of other elements, series were observed in which the ordinary Rydberg constant had to be multiplied by a number close to four. This result was considered by between different stationary states, we are entitled to Heisenberg as a support of relation (2) as regards the disfegard the previous history of the atom.
This result will be seen to be consistent with condition (24) which, as mentioned in Part I, presents itself as a direct generalisation to periodic systems of several degrees of freedom of condition (10) which determines the stationary states of a system of one degree of freedom, and which again on Ehrenfests principle of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states forms a rational generalisation of Plancks fundamental formula (9) for the possible values of the energy of a linear harmonic vibrator. This result, which at first may appear very surprising, upon further consideration can be given a simple interpretation. This result, which is in striking contrast to the ordinary phenomena of selective absorption, can be simply explained on Kossels view.
This seems to agree with some observations of the effect of two such fields on the hydrogen line H , published by Garbasso.1 ) The problem in question might also have been treated by means of the method of separation of variables, because, as may be easily shown, the perturbed systemif the relativity modifications are neglectedallows of separation of variables in parabolic coordinates, just as in the presence of the electric field only. This seems to be in agreement with some recent experiments of C. G. Barkla on the energy involved in the production of characteristic Rontgen radiation. This series of papers are collected in a single paper entitled On the Constitution of Atoms and Molecules namely: Paper I.Binding Of Electrons By Positive Nuclei, pp.
This series of papers can be found at: Project Gutenberg This showed therefore the untenability of the ringconfiguration quite independently of any other considerations. This similarity appears in the fact that the terms in each series can, as Rydberg pointed out, be very accurately represented by the formula + where K is the same constant that occurs in the hydrogen spectrum, often called the Rydberg constant, while n is the term number, and ? This similarity between the structure of the Xray spectra and the hydrogen spectrum was still further extended in a very interesting manner by Sommerfelds important theory of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines. This similarity is shown, not only by the lines of the K group, but also by groups of less penetrating Xrays.
This similarity we immediately understand if we recall that in the normal state of the atom there are electrons moving in orbits which, with certain limitations, correspond to all stages of such a binding process and that, when an electron is removed from its original place in the atom, processes may be started within the atom which will correspond to all transitions between these stages permitted by the correspondence principle. This simple concept enabled Bohr to calculate to an amazing degree of accuracy the various series of spectra of hydrogen and helium, for example, and even to deduce that the so-called Pickering series belonged to helium and not to hydrogen as was confirmed by Evans in Rutherford's laboratory.
This situation can hardly be regarded as being of temporary charac- ter, but would rather seem to be inherently connected with the way in which our whole conceptual framework has developed from serving the more primitive necessities of daily life to coping with the growth of knowledge gained by systematic scientific research. This situation is borne out by the in Pauli's report, of measuring the impossibility, discussed in detail magnetic moment of a free electron. This situation suggests that those essential features of living organisms which are brought to light only under circumstances which exclude an exact account of their atomic constituents are laws of a nature which stands in a complementary relationship to those with which we are concerned in physics and chemistry.
This situation therefore suggested that the treatment of the stability problems be based directly on the individual character of the atomic processes demonstrated by the discovery of the quantum of action. This situation was humorously expressed by Ehrenfest, who wrote on the blackboard the sentence from the Bible describing the confusion of languages that disturbed the building of the Babel tower. This situation would seem clearly to indicate the impossibility of a causal space-time description of the light pheno- mena.
This so-called quantum mechanics, to the elaboration of which Born and Jordan as well as Dirac from the outset made important contributions, opened the way to a consistent statistical treatment of many atomic problems which hitherto were only amenable to a semi-empirical approach. This spectrum consists of a number of lines whose frequencies are given with great exactness by Balmers formula = K K 0 2, 00 2 (n ) (n ) (5) where K is a constant, and n0 and n00 are whole numbers. This spectrum consists of a series of lines, the frequencies of which are given by the extremely simple Balmer formula 1 1 , (2) =K (n00 )2 (n0 )2 where n00 and n0 are integers.
This spectrum shows the existence of a number of series of stationary states, where the firmness with which the last captured electron is bound is very nearly the same as in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom. This spectrum, as opposed to most other simple spectra, consists of two complete systems of lines with frequencies given by formulae of the type (12). This state I shall call the normal state. This state which corresponds to the minimum energy of the atom will be called the normal state of the atom. This strictly speaking, the exclusion of all interactions requires, however, that the duration of the process with individuals not belonging to the system.
This suggests an explanation of the great difference between the properties of the elements in the latter half of the second period of the periodic system and those of the elements in the first half, in whose atoms there is only a single type of 2quanta orbits. This term corresponds to a strength of binding which is only a little more than a third of that of the hydrogen atom. This theory can even be said to be incompatible with the assumption of the existence of atoms possessing the structure we have described, in that the motions of the electrons would claim a continuous radiation of energy from the atom, which would cease only when the electrons had fallen into the nucleus. This theory can only be formulated by one and the same condition for a system as simple as the oscillator.
This theory is based primarily on considerations of the manner in which the atom can be imagined to be built up by the capture and binding of electrons to the nu32 1922 N . This theory is concerned with the emission and absorption of energy in a system of electrical particles, which oscillate with a given frequency per second, dependent only on the nature of the system and independent of the amount of energy contained in the system. This theory was based on a simple generalization of the results for the stationary states of the hydrogen atom.
This theory was originated by Planck, in the year 1900, in his investigations on the law of heat radiation, which, because of its independence of the individual prop erties of substances, lent itself peculiarly well to a test of the applicability of the laws of classical physics to atomic processes. This theory, further developed by Kramers and Heisenberg, included even new dispersion effects connected with the appearance, under the influence of the radiation, of possibilities for transitions not present in the unperturbed atom, and an analogue to which is the Raman effect in molecular spectra.
This theory, which has no direct relation to the problem of line-spectra discussed in the present paper, rests upon a profound analysis of the geometrical problem of dividing the multiple-dimensional phase space corresponding to a system of several degrees of freedom into cells in a way analogous to the division of the phase surface of a system of one degree of freedom by the curves given by (10). This throws at once light upon the remarkable difference which exists between the possibilities of transitions between the stationary states of a hydrogen atom on the one hand and of a simple system consisting of an electric particle capable of executing simple harmonic oscillations about a position of equilibrium on the other. This tion by means of ordinary space time pictures.
This too, as Mme Curie found, gave rise to induced activity. This transition takes the atom to the first state in the second row, and the subsequent transition to the normal state then gives rise to the yellow line. This tribution of charge and current, which, if applied implies that an immediate utilisation of the concept to a characteristic vibration, represents the of energy in connexion with the classical idea of electrostatic and magnetic properties of an atom the potential energy of the system is excluded. This use in fact entirely relies on the assumed possibility of accounting for the functioning of each clock as well as for its eventual comparison with other clocks on the basis of the methods of classical physics.
This use in fact entirely relies on the these theorems exclude in particular any imag- assumed possibility of accounting for the func- inable inconsistency in the quantum-mechanical tioning of each clock as well as for its eventual description, connected with a change of the place comparison with other clocks on the basis of where the discrimination is made between object the methods of classical physics. This value is very nearly equal to 4; the deviation is, however, much greater than can be accounted for in any way by the errors of the experiments. This variation will not give rise to a splitting up into separate components but only to small displacements in the position of the various lines.
This view does manner corresponding to the classical picture of not mean, however, that classical electron theory the motion. This view of the origin of the characteristic Xrays afforded a simple explanation of the peculiar absorption phenomena observed. This view of the origin of the emission and absorption spectra has been confirmed in a very interesting manner by experiments on the excitation of spectral lines and production of ionization by electron bombardment. This view of the sodium spectrum provides at the same time an immediate explanation of the pronounced electropositive properties of sodium, since the last bound electron in the sodium atom is still more loosely bound than the last captured electron in the lithium atom.
This view particles is unknown, offers the possibility of a par- dpps not mean, however, that classical electron theory ticularly simple illustration of the above considerations may be regarded Simply as the limiting case of a vanish- regarding the consistent utilization of the concept of ing quantum of action. This view seems in conformity with the general evidence as to the conditions of the excitation of the ordinary spectra and the spectra of enhanced lines. This view was also upheld by the eminent spectroscopist A. Fowler, who just at that time in laboratory experiments with discharges through a mixture of hydrogen and helium gas had observed the Pickering lines and new related spectral series. This view was first proposed by van den Broek.
This view, however, can hardly be maintained. This view, intimately akin to Einstein's successful interpretation of the photo electric effect, and borne out so convincingly by the beautiful researches of Franck and Hertz on the excitation of spectral lines by impacts of elec trons on atoms, did in fact not only provide an immediate explanation of the puzzling general laws of line spectra disentangled by Balmer, Rydberg, and Ritz, but, with the help of spectroscopic evidence, led gradually to a systematic classification of the types of stationary binding of any electron in an atom, offering a complete explanation of the remarkable relationships between the physical and chemical properties of the elements, as expressed in the famous periodic table of Mendeleev.
This view, which permitted the product of Planck's constant and any of the spectral terms to be identified with the binding energy of the electrons in the corresponding stationary state, also offered a simple explanation of the apparently capricious relationship between emission and absorption lines in series spectra, since in the former we are confronted with transitions from an excited state of the atom to some state of lower energy, while in the latter we generally have to do SOLVAY MEETINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF QUANTUM PHYSICS 85 with a transition process from the ground state with the lowest energy to one of the excited states. This viewpoint was elaborated in a supplementary memorandum in which also the technical problem of control measures was further discussed.
This was On the basis of the procedure developed by these accomplished by substituting for the Fourier authors and in close connexion with ideas of development of a classical mechanical quantity Born and Pauli, Heisenberg has in the paper a matrix scheme, the elements of which symbolise already cited above attempted a closer analysis purely harmonic vibrations and are associated of the physical content of the quantum theory, with the possible transitions between stationary especially in view of the apparently paradoxical states. This was an epoch-making achievement in that it was a wholly man-controlled nuclear transformation. This was beautifully shown by some later researches of Wood and Dunoyer.
This was before Marconi had been heard of although the latter perfected later the application of the principle and made it continuously recording. This was clearly shown in the beautiful experiments of Blackett in which he took photographs of tens of thousands of tracks and was ultimately rewarded by seeing the looked-for effect in the cloud chamber. This was duly relayed to the hamlet and gloom ensued. This was probably for him the most important event in his career for it directed his work towards radioactivity, which subject was to -occupy him for the rest of his life. This was regarded as a great triumph for Rydbergs theory and tended to remove all doubt that the new spectrum was actually due to hydrogen.
This was the very starting- interpretation of observations means, therefore, point of the original considerations of Heisenberg. This was the very starting-point of the original in the sense that the quantum postulite would logs considerations of Heisenberg. This was to be expected on Rutherfords theory, according to which a neutral helium atom contains two electrons and a nucleus of a charge twice that of the nucleus of the hydrogen atom.
This wave equation we have, as mentioned, an adequate situation is particularly important in connexion ntation of the stationary states of an atom with the consistent utilisation of Schrodinger's ing an unambiguous definition of the energy electric density as a measure of the probability of the system by means of the general quantum for electrons being present within given space relation (1). This way out of the difficulty is no longer open, since there is no room for another element in this region of the periodic system, or more correctly expressed, for an element possessing a new spectrum.
This website includes information about Project GutenbergTM, including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks. This whole development culminated in the recognition of the exist- ence of two families of particles, now referred to as fermions and bosons. This whole revolutionary development was to form the back- ground for the next conference, which was the first of the Solvay meetings I was able to attend. This will have the result that the electron groups with 2quanta orbits in the neon atom will have only a single axis of symmetry which must be supposed to coincide with the axis of symmetry of the innermost group of two electrons.
This will not continue to be true, however, when we consider the binding of the 19th electron in substances of higher atomic number, because of the much smaller relative difference between the field of force outside and inside the region of the first eighteen electrons bound. This work can be determined directly as the product of Planck's constant and the spectral term corresponding to the normal state, which, as mentioned above, is equal to the limiting value of the frequencies of the spectral series connected with selective absorption.
This would in fact be quite analogous to the circumstance that all observations obtained by experimental arrangements which allow of a space-time account of the behavior of the constituents of atoms and molecules stand in a complementary relation to those obtained under conditions permitting the study of the intrinsic stability of atomic structures so essential for the physical and chemical properties of matter.
This would mean that the stationary states of the perturbed hydrogen atom corresponding to a certain stationary state of the unperturbed hydrogen atom, fixed by one condition, should be subject to two further conditions and should therefore be characterized by two new whole numbers in addition to the number n. But the perturbations of the Keplerian motion are simply periodic and the energy of the perturbed atom will therefore be fixed completely by one additional condition. This would, however, lead to the same result, for in this case the frequency of revolution to will be replaced by the frequency nto of the radiation from the whole rin~ calcu- lated from the ordinary electrodynamics, and T by t~e total kinetic energy nT.
This year was an exceedingly fruitful one for the continuation of Heisenberg's fundamental scientific work. This, however, cannot be expected from our view of atomic structure. This, however, does not necessarily disagree with experiment. This, however, is not possible so long as we use the classical theory of radiation. This, however, would hardly seem to be a general property of the binding of the 13th electron in atoms, but rather to arise from the special conditions for the binding of the last electron in an atom, where already there are two other electrons bound as loosely as the valency electron of aluminium. This, which is already indited on Julius Thomsens old table, has also been pointed out by Bury.
Those developments of the quantum theory which have made possible its application to atomic structure started with the interpretation of the wellknown simple spectrum emitted by hydrogen. Those familiar with my father's way of working will know what great efforts he devoted to the prepara- tion of all his publications. Those of us who were privileged to know Lord Rutherford will appreciate how much of his social and political outlook reflected the influence of this environment. Those who were with him at that time have all contributed largely towards the rapid develop- ment of radioactivity.
Though the serious implications of this development were in everybody's mind, no mention of them was made at the conference, which dealt with the problem of Elementary Particles, a domain in which new prospects had been opened by the discovery of particles with rest mass between that of the electron and the nucleons. Though the viewpoint of complementarity rejects every compromise with any anti-rationalistic vitalism, it ought at the same time to be suited for revealing certain prejudices in so-called mechanism. Three subgroups of four orbits each cannot in this case be expected to come into interaction with one another in a correspondingly simple manner.
Through Heisenberg's treatment of the electron spin in connection with the symmetry properties of the wave functions, the Pauli principle appeared in a much clearer light, and this was at once to bring about most important consequences. Through tained in any observation as considered in the this connexion it was possible to a large extent to ordinary description of natural phenomena. Through the acute awareness of deficiencies and warm enthusiasm for any even modest advance, characteristic of Ehrenfest's whole attitude, his exposition faithfully reflects the state of flux of our ideas' at that time, as well as the feeling of expectation of approaching decisive progress.
Through the development of ingenious methods, adapted to the complementary mode of description, it has actually proved possible to attain a rational generalization of the so-called classical physical theories. Through the effect of an external electric field the orbit will be deformed. Through the work of Born, Heisenberg, and Jordan as well as Dirac this bold and ingenious conception was soon given a general formulation in which the classical kinematic and dynamical variables are replaced by symbolic operators obeying a non-commuta- tive algebra involving Planck's constant. Through the work of demonstrate the consistency of the symbolic Born and Jordan as well as of Dirac, the theor; method.
Through this connection it was possible ordinary kinematical and mechanical quantities by to a large extent to interpret the regularities of spectra symbols which refer directly to the individual processes on the basis of our ideas about the structure of the demanded by the quantum postulate. Thus Dennison the ordinary sense going still further than in the (Proc. Thus Dennison, in connection with ideas tion of electricity appears in this theory as an analogue of Heisenberg and Hund, has succeeded recently in a to the conservation theorems for energy and momentum.
Thus I do not remember any more severe utterance of his to me than, when at a Royal Society Club dinner in a conversation with some of his friends I had referred to him in the third person as Lord Rutherford, he furiously turned on me with the words : '' Do you lord me ? Thus I vividly remember the circumstances of my first meeting in Rutherford's office m the Cavendish with the young Robert Oppenheimer, with whom I was later to come into such close friendship. Thus Lewis, who in several respects independently came to the same conclusions as Kossel, suggested that the number 8 characterizing the first groups of the periodic system might indicate a constitution of the outer atomic groups where the electrons within each group formed a configuration like the corners of a cube.
Thus Moseley found for all the elements he investigated that the frequencies of the strongest line in the L group may be represented by a formula which with a simplification similar to that employed in formula (8) can be written 1 1 2 . Thus Paschen found a greater number of components in the fine structure of the helium lines, mentioned above, when the gas was subject to a condensed interrupted discharge, than when a continuous voltage was applied.
Thus Sommerfeld attempts to obtain a measure for the relative intensities of the components of the fine structure of a given line, by comparing the intensities observed with the products of the values of the a-priori probabilities of the two states, involved in the emission of the components under consideration; and he tries in this connection to test different expressions for these a-priori probabilities (See Part I, page 47). Thus already Democritus, who with so deep intuition emphasized the necessity of atomism for any rational account of the ordinary properties of matter, attempted, as is well known, also to utilize atomistic ideas for the explanation of the peculiarities of organic life and even of human psychology.
Thus by the bombardment with neutrons uranium had been split up into two nuclei of moderate weight, the one barium and the other- as was soon discovered-krypton. Thus corresponding to the conservation of angular momentum for central systems, we get in the first place from (46) that 3 will remain unaltered during the perturbations. Thus for example the mass of helium is 40039 units and if it is built up of protons and neutrons of mass approximately 1-0081 each there is a loss of mass of 4*0039 -4 x 1*0081 = 0-029 unit which must in terms of Einstein's equation appear as energy and of the same order per pound of material as when fission of uranium takes place.
Thus from a simple consideration it will be seen that, in complete analogy to the relations (52) and (53), we get in the present case for the difference between the energy of two slightly different states of the perturbed system, which correspond to the same value of I, = v1 I1 + v2 I2 , (59) where v1 is the frequency with which the shape of the orbit and its position relative to the axis of the field repeats itself at regular intervals and which is characterised by the variation of 2 and 2 , while v2 is the mean frequency of rotation of the plane of the orbit round this axis characterised by the variation of 3 , and where I1 and I2 are defined by the equations Z Z 2 3 D3 = 23 .
Thus from the formul (17) and (18) on page 32, it follows that 1 is the total energy corresponding to the osculating orbit, while 1 will represent the moment in which the system would pass some distinguished point in this orbit. Thus he entered Nelson College accompanied thereto over the rough mountain forest track by his father, both on horseback. Thus he says: My endless enquiries make it impossible for me to achieve anything. Thus he showed that in the K and L groups pairs of lines appeared the differences of whose frequencies could be determined by the expression (11) for the energy in the stationary states which correspond to the binding of a single electron by a nucleus of charge N e. Periodic table.
Thus if A is the radioactive constant and N the number of atoms present at any time then in a next succeeding small interval of time dt the most probable number of disintegrations will be NAdt. Thus if I dwell too long over the description of his formative years please forgive me. Thus in 1912, there could only be question of" .a preliminary orientation as to the general features of the situation . Thus in general the s will be quite different for two different stationary states corresponding to different sets of ns in (22), and we cannot expect any close relation between the spectrum calculated on the quantum theory and that to be expected on the ordinary theory of mechanics and electrodynamics.
Thus in general there will be a certain probability of an atomic system in a stationary state to pass spontaneously to any other state of smaller energy, but if for all motions of a given system the coefficients C in (14) are zero for certain values of , we are led to expect that no transition will be possible, for which n0 n00 is equal to one of these values. Thus in krypton, for example, we may expect besides the groups of 1, 2 and 3quanta orbits a markedly symmetrical configuration of 8 electrons in 4quanta orbits consisting of four 41 orbits and four 42 orbits.
Thus in the neutral atom of radium in addition to the electronic structure of niton there will be two electrons in 71 orbits which will penetrate during their revolution not only into the region of the orbits of electrons possessing lower values for the principal quantum number, but even to distances from the nucleus which are less than the radii of the orbits of the innermost 1quantum orbits. Thus in the present case we must be prepared to find that for a small fraction of the systems of the same order as 2 (if 2 > ) the energy will differ from that fixed by the method under consideration by small quantities of the same order as .
Thus in the special case of a system s 1 = = = , of which every orbit is periodic we have 1 s where the s are the numbers which enter in equation (23), and the Fourier series for the displacements in the different directions will in this case consist only of terms of the simple form C cos 2{ t + c }, just as for a system of one degree of freedom. Thus it became This question 0 ers a particularly instructive example possible in a rational way to take account of the in- for the application of the new methods. Thus it became of interest to investigate such collisions.
Thus it became possible in a rational way to take This inobservability of the phase, well known account of the individual character of radiation from the theory of optical instruments, is brought demanded by the quantum theory and to build out in a particularl{ simple manner in a discussion up a dispersion theory, in which the final width of the Stern-Gerlach experiment, so important for of the spectral lines is taken into consideration. Thus it could be shown directly that atoms that were transferred in this manner to a stationary state of greater energy were able to return to the normal state with emission of radiation corresponding to a single spectral line.
Thus it follows as an immediate consequence of the assumption used that we must have It will be seen that these relations correspond exactly to the ordinary principle of combination of spectral lines. Thus it is evident from Francks experiments that the normal state of the atom is the last stage in the binding process involving the emission of the parhelium spectrum by which the electron last captured as well as the one first captured will be bound in a 11 orbit. Thus it is found in the work of Vegard, and at the same time as my own work, it was proposed by Bury in connexion with considerations of the systematic relation between the chemical properties and the grouping of the electrons inside the atom from the point of view of Langmuir's static atomic model.
Thus it may happen that the atom loses several electrons by a violent impact, but the probability that the electrons will be removed to exactly the same distance from the nucleus or will fall back into the atom again at exactly the same time would appear to be very small. Thus it was possible to develop a complete quantum theory explanation of the Zeeman effect for the S T R U C T U R E O F T H E A T O M 29 hydrogen lines, which, in spite of the essentially different character of the assumptions that underlie the two theories, is very similar throughout to Lorentz's original explanation based on the classical theory.
Thus it will be shown by Mr. H. A. Kramers, in the paper mentioned in the end of 4, that, quite independent of the possibility of separation of variables for the perturbed system in a fixed set of positional coordinates, the theory of secular perturbations exposed in this section offersif these perturbations as determined by (46) are of conditionally periodic typea means of disclosing a set of angle variables, which may be used to describe the motion of the perturbed system with the same degree of approximation as that involved in the preceding calculations.
Thus let us assume that the second field is slowly established at a uniform rate within a time interval of the same order of magnitude as that in which the system will pass approximately through any state belonging to the cycle of shapes and positions, which the orbit passes through in the stationary states in the presence of the first external field only. Thus the attempt to interpret the relations between the elements in the natural system by the assumption of a division of the electrons into groups goes as far back as the work of J. J. Thomson in 1904. Thus the components were situated unsymmetrically with regard to the original line, and were also not polarized relative to the field.
Thus the existence of life itself would have to be regarded in biology, both as regards the possibilities of observation and of definition, as no more subject to analysis than the existence of the quantum of action in atomic physics. Thus the first radioactive particle counter was evolved. Thus the latter formula applies accurately, if the quantities k are not considered as constants, but as representatives of a set of series of numbers k (n) characteristic of the element, whose values for increasing n within each series quickly approach a constant limiting value. Thus the length of the year is not determined by the masses of the sun and the earth alone, but depends also on the conditions that existed during the formation of the solar system, of which we have very little knowledge.
Thus the nature of the interaction between the electrons in the groups of the atom implies that each electron in the atom is so to say prepared, independently of the other electrons in the same group, to seize any opportunity which is offered to become more firmly bound by being taken up into a group of electrons with orbits corresponding to smaller values of the principal quantum number. Thus the properties of radioactive substances began to appear very complicated. Thus the properties of the bracketed elements in the 5th period as it appears in the table, depend on a stage in the development of the 4-quantum electron group that is initiated by the entrance in the 38 1 9 2 2 N .
Thus the similarity between X-ray spectra and the spectra emitted during the binding of a single electron to a nucleus may be simply interpreted from the fact that the transitions between stationary states with which we are concerned in X-ray spectra are accompanied by changes in the motion of an electron in the inner part of the atom, where the influence of the attraction of the nucleus is very great compared with the repulsive forces of the other electrons. Thus the volume of the phase-space, corresponding to states for which I1 lies between I1 and I1 + I1 and for which I2 lies between I2 and I2 + I2 , is found by a simple calculation1 ) to be equal to W = 2I1 I1 I2 , if the motion is described by ordinary polar coordinates.
Thus there will be found in the fourth and fifth periods a single frame indicating the final completion of the electronic group with 3quanta orbits, and the last stage but one in the development of the group with 4quanta orbits respectively. Thus we are led to assume that the ordinal number of an element in the Periodic Table, the so-called atomic number, is just equal to the number of electrons which move about the nucleus in the neutral atom. Thus we find in the latter part of the fourth period a series of elements whose chemical properties approach more and more to the properties of the elements at the end of the preceding periods, until finally with atomic number 36 we again meet one of the inactive gases, namely krypton.
Thus we might regard this equation as a relation expressing certain characteristic properties of the distinctive motions of an atomic system and try to obtain the general form of these properties. Thus we must assume that a system consisting of a nucleus and an electron rotating round it under certain circumstances can absorb a radiation of' a frequency equal to the frequency of the homogeneous radiation emitted during J. W. Nicholson,loc. Thus we see ab once mechanical pictures of electronic motion may be that no causal connexion can be obtained between rationally utilised.
Thus we see at once phasized by Heisenberg, the simplicity of the case of the that no causal connection can be obtained between ob- oscillator, however, is exceptional and intimately con- servations leading to the fixation of a stationary state and nected with the harmonic nature of the corresponding earlier observations on the behaviour of the separate classical motion. Thus we shall assume that even when the quantum numbers are small the possibility of transition between two stationary states is connected with the presence of a certain harmonic component in the motion of the system. Thus we shall assume that the 37th and 38th electrons in the elements of the fifth period are bound in 51 orbits.
Thus we shall expect that the 4th, 5th and 6th electrons in a similar way to the 3rd will at certain moments of their revolution enter into the region where the first two bound electrons move. Thus we shall expect that there will exist an intimate connection between the probability of spontaneous transition between two stationary states of the perturbed system, for which n = n0 , nk = n0k and n = n00 , nk = n00k respectively, and the values in these states of the coefficient C,t1 ,..., ts1 in the expressions for the displacements of the particles, for which = n0 n00 and tk = n0k n00k .
Thus, Arthur Compton had in 1923 discovered the change in frequency of X-rays by scattering from free electrons and had himself, as well as Debye, stressed the support which this 88 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE discovery gave for Einstein's conception of the photon, notwithstand- ing the increased difficulties of picturing the correlation between the processes of absorption and emission of photons by the electron in the simple manner used for the interpretation of atomic spectra. Thus, Einstein had pointed out that, after a preliminary weighing of the box with the clock and the subsequent escape of the photon, one was still left with the choice of either repeating the weighing or opening the box and comparing the reading of the clock with the standard time scale.
Thus, I do not remem- ber any more severe utterance of his to me than, when at a Royal Society Club dinner in a conversation with some of his friends I had referred to him in the third person as Lord Rutherford, he furiously turned on me with the words: "Do you lord me?" Thus, I recall how Pauli, whose treatment of the energy states of the hydrogen atom was one of the first fruitful applications of Heisenberg's views, expressed his dissatisfaction with the situation. Thus, I remember how, on a visit of Schrodinger to Copenhagen in 1926, when he gave us a most impres- sive account of his wonderful work, we argued with him that any procedure disregarding the individual character of the quantum processes would never account for Planck's fundamental formula of thermal radiation.
Thus, I vividly remember the circumstances of my first meeting in Rutherford's office in the Cavendish with the young Robert Oppenheimer, with whom I was later to come into such close friendship. Thus, Maurice de Broglie discussed some most interesting effects encountered in his experiments with X-rays, which in particular revealed a relationship between absorption and emission processes reminding of that exhibited by spectra in the optical region.
Thus, a sentence like "we cannot know both the momentum and the position of an atomic object" raises at once questions as to the physical reality of two such attributes of the object, which can be answered only by referring to the conditions for the unambiguous use of space-time concepts, on the one hand, and dynamical conservation laws, on the other hand. Thus, a sentence like "we cannot know both the momentum and the position of an electron" raises at once questions as to the physical reality of such two attributes, which can be answered only by referring to the mutually exclusive conditions for the unambiguous use of space-time coordination, on the one hand, and dynamical conservation laws, on the other.
Thus, after referring to the conclusions derived by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen on the basis of their criterion, I wrote: Such an argumentation, how ever, would hardly seem suited to affect the soundness of quantum-mechanical description, which is based on a coherent mathematical formalism covering automatically any procedure of measurement like that indicated. Thus, after reports by Warburg and Rubens of the experimental evidence supporting Planck's law of temperature radia- tion, Planck himself gave an exposition of the arguments which had led him to the discovery of the quantum of action. Thus, also in Cambridge, Rutherford and his collaborators con- tinued with great vigour and steadily refined apparatus the investiga- tions of the radioactive processes of a- and (3-decay.
Thus, also in the description of atomic phenomena, use of momentum and energy variables for the specification of initial conditions and final observations refers implicitly to such analysis and therefore demands that the experimental arrangements used for the pm'J)ose have spatial di mensions and operate with time intervals sufficiently large to permit the neglect of the reciprocal indeter minacy expressed by (3). Thus, also the Schrodinger wave equation has obtained while the definition of energy and momentum of an instructive application.
Thus, although such essential elements of the explana- tion as the electron spin were still unknown, it became in fact possible within about ten years of Rutherford's discovery of the atomic nucleus to achieve a summary interpretation of many of the most striking periodicity features of Mendeleev's table. Thus, an experimental arrangement aiming at ascertaining where an atomic particle, whose position at a given time has been controlled, will be located at a later moment implies a transfer, uncontrollable in principle, of momentum and energy to the fixed scales and regulated clocks necessary for the definition of the reference frame.
Thus, any arrangement suited to study the exchange of energy and momentum between the electron and the photon must involve a latitude in the space-time description of the interaction sufficient for the definition of wave-number and frequency which enter into the relation (1). Thus, any attempt at space-time location of the electrons in atoms and molecules would demand an experimental arrangement prohibiting the appearance of spectral regularities and chemical bonds.
Thus, any measurement of the position of an electron by means of some device, like a microscope, making use of high frequency radiation, will, according to the fundamental relations (1), be connected with a momentum exchange between the electron and the measuring agency, which is the greater the more accurate a position measurement is attempted. Thus, any state of a system composed of particles with half- integral spin such as electrons or protons is to be represented by a wave function which is antisymmetrical in the sense that it changes its sign, when the coordinates of two particles of the same kind are inter- changed.
Thus, as I later learned, A. Haas had in 1910 attempted, on the basis of Thomson's atomic model, to fix dimensions and periods of electronic THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 35 motions by means of Planck's relation between the energy and the frequency of a harmonic oscillator. Thus, as long as the word "life" is retained for practical or epistemological reasons, the ,dual approach in biology will surely persist.
Thus, besides the conditions which prescribe the length of the major axis of the rotating orbit and the value of the angular momentum of the system round the axis of the field, the theories of the mentioned authors involve the further condition, that the value of the total angular momentum of the electron round the nucleus must be equal to an entire multiple of h/2; and that consequently the minor axis of the orbit has the same values as in a hydrogen atom perturbed by a small external central field (compare page 110).
Thus, by a simple application of relativistic mechanics, it is found that, if the equation of a Keplerian lipse in polar coordinates is given by r = f (), the equation of the orbit of the electron in the case under consideration will be given by r = f () where is a constant given by 2 2 Ne 2 = 1 , in which expression p denotes the angular pc momentum of the electron round the nucleus.1 ) Now in the stationary states the quantity in the bracket, which is of the same order of magnitude as the ratio between the velocity of the electron and the velocity of light, will be very small, unless N is a large number, and it will therefore be seen that the orbit of the electron can be described as a periodic orbit on which a slow uniform rotation is superposed.
Thus, for a conditionally periodic system, the volume given by (11) of the element of phase-space, including all points q1 , . Thus, for any given external field, we meet with the question whether the perturbations are conditionally periodic and, if so, in what set of orbital constants this periodicity may be conveniently expressed. Thus, for the study of an interference phenomenon of the type indicated in Fig. Thus, from the fact that in general negative as well as positive values for the s appear in (31), it follows that we must expect that in general not only such transitions will be possible in which all the ns decrease, but that also transitions will be possible for which some of the ns increase while others decrease.
Thus, he suggested that it should be possible to determine the energy of a timed pulse of radiation with unlimited accuracy by the weighing of an apparatus containing a clock connected with a shutter releasing the pulse. Thus, if the intensities of the fields are so large that we may look apart from the small modifications claimed by the theory of relativity, we shall from the above expect that the effect in question will differ from the ordinary Stark effect of the hydrogen lines, only therein that every component polarised perpendicular to the field is split up in two symmetrical components corresponding to the outer members of a Lorentz triplet.
Thus, if the secular perturbations as determined by (46) are of conditionally periodic type, we shall expect that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to , the cycles of shapes and positions which the orbit of the electron passes through in the stationary states of the perturbed system will be characterised by the conditions (55), and that the possible values of the additional energy of the atom in the stationary states will be fixed by these conditions with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 .
Thus, if the weaker field was parallel to the stronger, the motion of the electron in the perturbed atom would be composed of a number of linear harmonic vibrations parallel to the direction of the fields, the frequencies of which are of the type | P + t1 v1 |, and of a number of circular harmonic rotations perpendicular to this direction, the frequencies of which are of the type | P + t1 v1 + v2 | (compare page 114).
Thus, if these variations are of periodic or conditionally periodic type, we may expect that, in the presence of the external field, the values for the additional energy of the system in the stationary states are related to the small frequency or frequencies of the perturbations, in a manner analogous to the relation between energy and frequency in the stationary states of an ordinary periodic or conditionally periodic system.
Thus, if we consider a large number of similar atomic systems of the type in question, we may be prepared to find that the values of the additional energy in a given stationary state will for the different systems deviate from each other by small quantities; but it must be expected that the values of the additional energy for the large majority of systems will differ from the value of , as determined by the method indicated above, only by small quantities proportional to 2 , and that only for a small fraction (at most of the same order as 2 ) of the systems the values of the additional energy will show deviations from this value of , which are of the same order as . Thus, in 1912, there could only be question of a preliminary orientation as to the general features of the situation.
Thus, in June, 1913, I went to Manchester with a second paper which, besides a continued discussion of the radio- active displacement law and the origin of the Barkla radiation, dealt with the ground state of atoms containing several electrons. Thus, in addition to the condition which fixes the plane in which the electrical centre moves, Epsteins theory involves the further condition, that the angular momentum of the electron round the axis of the perturbed system is equal to an entire multiple of h/2; which multiple is seen to be even or uneven, according as n + n is an even or an uneven number respectively.
Thus, in any process resulting in chemical com- binations, the properties of the new molecules do not primarily depend on the composition of the molecules by whose interaction they were formed, but only on the relative placing of the atoms of which they consist. Thus, in biology we meet with suggestive analogies in the opposite points of view of mechanistic and vitalistic argumentation, and especially in psychological studies we are presented with problems which, in epistemological respects, exhibit a close analogy to the intricacies of atomic physics.
Thus, in case the effect of the external electric field is large compared with that of the magnetic field, we may expect that, in both states involved in the transitions in question, the positions of the plane in which the electrical centre moves will coincide with positions of this plane in states belonging to the ensemble just mentioned, while the angular momentum of the electron round the axis of the electric field will generally change by an amount which will not be equal to an entire multiple of h/2. Thus, in contrast to the conditions in the sixth period, there are no elements whose properties resemble one another like those of the rare earths.
Thus, in emission processes we witness the transition of the atom from a higher to a lower energy level, whereas in the absorption processes we have in general to do with a transfer of the atom from the ground state, with the lowest energy, to one of its excited states. Thus, in introspection we have always to do with an arbitrary separation between the object of conscious analysis and the subjective background for the judgment, and it is essential to recognize how intimately the choice of this separation depends on those aspects of psychological experience to which attention in the given situation is directed.
Thus, in ordinary electrodynamics, the composition of the radiation emitted from an electron system should be determined by the fre- quencies and amplitudes of the harmonic oscillations into which the motion of the system can be resolved. Thus, in the account of electro- magnetic phenomena, in which we have to consider a propagation of forces with finite velocities, a deterministic description could be upheld by including in the definition of the state not only the positions and 2 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE velocities of the charged bodies, but also the direction and intensity of the electric and magnetic forces at every point of space at a given time.
Thus, in the autumn of 1916, Rutherford wrote about his intense interest in some surprising results regarding the absorption of hard y-rays produced by high- voltage tubes which had just then become available. Thus, in the carbon assimilation surroundings or for the reaction to sense impresof plants, on which depends largely also the sions, will exhibib a similar adaptation to their nourishment of animals, we are dealing with a purpose, and that also in these cases the feature phenomenon for the understanding of which the of individuality symbolised by the quantum of individuality of photo-chemical processes must action, together with some amplifying mechanism, undoubtedly be taken into consideration.
Thus, in the potassium atom, the electron orbits with subordinate quantum numbers 2 and 1 will, as indicated in the figure, penetrate partly into the inner region. Thus, in the presence of small perturbing forces, the motion will generally not remain in a plane, and in the trigonometric series representing the displacement of the electron in space, there will occur small terms corresponding to frequencies (1 1 +2 2 ), where 2 may be different from one. Thus, in the quantal formalism, the quantities by which the state of a physical system is ordinarily defined are replaced by symbolic operators sub- jected to a non-commutative algorism involving Planck's constant.
Thus, it was concluded that we were here faced with transition processes involving excited states of the atom, in which one of the electrons has been brought outside the region occupied by the other electrons bound to the nucleus, and therefore exposed to a field of force resembling that surrounding a unit charge. Thus, it was natural to ascribe the Pickering and Fowler lines to helium ionized by the high thermal agitation in the stars and in the strong discharges used by Fowler.
Thus, looking apart from the effect of the relativity modifications, we may conclude at once that the total energy in the stationary states of the atom will be given by E = En + nvH h, (80) where n is an entire number which can be positive as well as negative, while En will be equal to the energy in the corresponding stationary state of the undisturbed atom, which is given by Wn in (41). Thus, many of the difficulties hampering the understanding of electric conduction in metals, so acutely felt in the discussions at the conference in 1924, had in the meantime been overcome.
Thus, measurements of the energy neces- sary to produce the Barkla radiation by electron bombardment of various elements, performed by Whiddington at the time when I was staying in Cambridge, exhibited simple regularities of the kind to be expected from an estimate of the firmest binding energy of an electron rotating in a Planck orbit round a nucleus with a charge given by the atomic number. Thus, measurements of the energy necessary to produce the Barkla radiation by electron bombardment of various elements, performed by Whiddington at the time when I was staying in Cambridge, exhibited simple regularities of the kind to be expected from an estimate of the firmest binding" nergy of an electron rotating in a Planck orbit round a nucleus with a charge ";iven by the atomic number.
Thus, phrases often found in the phys ical literature, like "disturbance of phenomena by obJ servation" or "creation of physical attributes of ob jects by measurements," represent a use of words like phenomena and observation as well as attribute and measu1ement which is hardly compatible with com mon usage and practical definition and, therefore, is apt to cause confusion. Thus, pointing to the similar roles played by the quantum numbers in the classification of stationary states by means of mechanical pictures, and by the numbers of nodes in characterizing the possible standing waves in elastic media, L. de Broglie had already in 1924 been led to a comparison between the behaviour of free material particles and the properties of photons.
Thus, the assumption suggests itself that the formation of all permanently or temporarily present macromolecular structures represents essentially irreversible processes which increase the stability of the organism under the prevailing conditions kept up by nutrition and respiration. Thus, the concept of electron spin, to the treatment of which Darwin and Pauli had made important contributions, was harmoniously incorporated in Dirac's spinor analysis. Thus, the description of quantum phenomena requires a distinction in principle between the objects under investiga- tion and the measuring apparatus by means of which the experimental conditions are defined.
Thus, the emphasis on permanent recordings under well-defined experimental conditions as the basis for a consistent interpretation of the quantal formalism corresponds to the presupposi- tion, implicit in the classical physical account, that every step of the causal sequence of events in principle allows of verification. Thus, the integrity of living organisms and the characteristics of conscious individuals and human cultures present features of whole- ness, the account of which implies a typical complementary mode of 1 description.
Thus, the integrity of the organisms was felt by Aristotle to present a fundamental difficulty for the assumption of a limited divisibility of matter, in which the school of atomists sought a basis for the under- standing of the order reigning in nature in spite of the variety of physical phenomena. Thus, the interpretation indicated led to a sequence of decreasing values for the binding energy of the electron in the hydrogen atom, pointing to a steplike process by which the 38 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE electron, originally at a large distance from the nucleus, passes by radiative transitions to stationary states of firmer and firmer binding, characterized by lower and lower ^-values, until the ground state, specified by n = i, is reached.
Thus, the interpretation of spectral regu- larities and chemical bonds refers to experimental conditions mutually exclusive of those which permit exact control of the position and dis- placement of the individual electrons in the atomic systems. Thus, the philosophers in ancient Greece, who based the explanation of the specific properties of substances on the limited divisibility of all matter, took it for granted that the coarseness of our sense organs would for ever prevent the direct observation of individual atoms.
Thus, the smallness of the quantum of action compared with the actions involved in usual experience, including the arranging and handling of physical apparatus, is as essential in atomic physics as is the enormous number of atoms composing the world in the general theory of relativity which, as often pointed out, demands that dimensions of apparatus for measuring angles can be made small compared with the radius of curvature of space. Thus, the states in the first row (S) correspond to the variable term in the Downloaded from https://www.holybooks.com on the series spectra of the elements 46 Diagram of the series spectrum of sodium.
Thus, we are normally unconscious of our respiration and the beating of the heart, and hardly aware of the working of our muscles and bones during the motion of our limbs. Thus, we do not necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. Thus, we should doubtless kill an animal description of natural phenomena. Thus, when I learned that the number and decaying elements already identified exceeded the of stable available places in the famous table of Mendeleev, it struck me that such chemically inseparable substances, to the existence of which Soddy had early called attention and which later by him were termed "isotopes", possessed the same nuclear charge and differed only in the mass and intrinsic structure of the nucleus.
Thus, when Ilearned that the number of stable and decaying elements already identified exceeded the available places in the famous table of Mendeleev, it struck me that such chemically inseparable substances, to the existence of which Soddy had early called attention and which later by him were termed ' isotopes ', possessed the same nuclear charge and differed only in the mass and intrinsic structure of the nucleus. Thus, when our fine appara- tus was ruined by an accident in which its support caught fire, there was no help to reconstruct it, and when also Makower shortly after- wards volunteered for military service, the experiments were given up.
Thus, while the continuous spectrum of hydrogen, when observed as emission spectrum in stars, shows a abrupt beginning at the head of the Balmer series, the continuous spectrum, observed by Stark in his experiments referred to above, was not sharply limited but showed a pronounced maximum in the spectral region which corresponds to transitions between two states, in the first of which the velocity of the free electron relative to the nucleus, before the collision with the latter, was of the same order of magnitude as the velocity of the positive rays by means of which the spectrum was excited.
Thus, while the de- In judging the possibilities of observation it must, on finition of energy and momentum of individualsis at- the whole, be kept in mind that the wave-mechanigal tached to the idea of a harmonic elementary wave, every solutions can be v1sualized only in so far as they Gillbe spEe-time feature of the description Of phenomena is, described with the aid of the concept of free particlgs. Thus, while the frequencies of the latter vibrations are defined with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 , the frequencies of the small vibrations under consideration are obviously defined only with neglect of small quantities proportional to .
Thus, words like contemplation and volition, referring to situations which are mutually 22 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE exclusive but equally characteristic of conscious life, have been used in a typical complementary manner since the very origin of language. Tile agreement as for the order of magnitude between values observed for tile frequencies and dimensions of the atoms, and values for these quantities calculated by considerations similar to those given above, has been the subject of much discussion. Tile condition for the appearance of the spectrum is, according to the at: eve theory, that heliun atoms are present in a state in which they have lost both tl~eir electrons.
Tile principal difference between the atom-models proposed by Thomson and Rutherford consists in the circumstance t(lat the forces acting on the electrons in the atom-model of Thomson allow of certain configurations and motions of the electrons for which the system is in a stable equilibrium; such configurations, however, apparently do not exist for the second atom-model. Tim preliminary and hypothetical character of the above considerations needs not to be emphasized. Time does not permit me to consider this question any further, and I shall confine myself to a statement of some simple conclusions, which the correspondence principle permits us to draw concerning the occurrence of transitions between various pairs of stationary states.
Time does not permit me to give a systematic survey of the quantum theory, the recent development of which has gone hand in hand with its applications to atomic structure. Time unfortunately does not permit me to enter further into this interesting problem, so I must refer you to the continuation of my paper in the Transactions of the Copenhagen Academy, which will contain a general discussion of the origin of series spectra and of the effects of electric and magnetic fields. Time will have to show to what extent this can be avoided; but the safest way is, of course, to make as few assumptions as possible. To SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate .
To account for what we actually do and learn in physical experimentation, it is, of course, necessary to de- scribe the experimental arrangement and the recording of observa- tions in common language. To avoid such undesired consequences he introduced the ingenious idea of the so- called Dirac sea, in which all states of negative energy are filled up to the full extent reconcilable with the exclusion principle of equivalent stationary states. To begin with, the binding will result in a 2 I orbit, but later electrons will be bound in 2 2 orbits, until, after binding the first10 electrons in the atom, we reach a closed configuration of the a-quantum orbits in which we assume there are four orbits of each type.
To clear up the difficulties it became necessary to examine more closely the electrical discharge itself and this cleared the way for great advances. To come to my more immediate task, Ernest Rutherford was born on 30 August 1871 the fourth of a family of twelve in a tiny hamlet of Brightwater, later called Spring Grove some 12 miles south-west of a small town Nelson on the north coast of the South Island of New Zealand. To connect free will more directly with limitation of causality in atomic physics, as it is often suggested, is, however, entirely foreign to the tendency underlying the remarks here made about biological problems.
To consider the simultaneous effect of electric and magnetic fields the axes of which are perpendicular to each other, let us first suppose that the effect of the electric force is large compared with the effect of the magnetic force. To describe the background of our discussions and to bring out as clearly as possible the arguments for the contrasting viewpoints, I have felt it necessary to go to a certain length in recalling some main features of the development to which Einstein himself has contributed so decisively. To donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate. To every one of us, the first revelation of the power of mathematical reasoning in its simplest form was the acquaintance with numbers and their use.
To everyone following this development it was an unforgettable experience to witness how, through the combination of different lines of approach and the introduction of appropriate mathe- matical methods, a new outlook emerged regarding the comprehension of physical experience. To explain the trend of Einstein's arguments, it may be illustrative here to consider some simple features of the momentum and energy balance in connection with the location of a particle in space and time. To explain this fact it seems necessary to base the discussion on a more thorough investigation of the mutual perturbations of the outer and the inner orbits. To gain familiarity with this situation, the detailed treatment of a great variety of examples of such arguments was needed.
To illustrate his attitude, Einstein referred at one of the sessions to the simple example, illustrated by Fig. To introduce the discussion on such points, I was asked at the conference to give a report on the epistemological problems confront- ing us in quantum physics, and took the opportunity to enter upon the question of an appropriate terminology and to stress the viewpoint of complementarity. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.
To make this view clearer, it was pointed out in the article cited, that the continuous metabolism of organisms inseparably connected with life prevents us even from distinguishing strictly which atoms belong to a living organism, and that we are thus presented with a problem the treatment of which, quite apart from its complication, is beyond the scope of the methods of atomic mechanics. To me it was a welcome stimulus to clarify still further the role played by the measuring instruments and, in order to bring into strong relief the mutually exclusive character of the experimental conditions under which the complementary phenomena appear, I tried in those days to sketch various apparatus in a pseudo-realistic style of which the following figures are examples.
To me, it was also a most pleasant and enlightening experience to be admitted to the monthly discussions among a group of Rutherford's personal friends, including Alexander, the philosopher, the historian Tout, the anthropologist Elliot Smith, and Chaim Weizmann, the chemist, who thirty years later was to become the first president of Israel and for whose distinctive personality Rutherford had great esteem. To my mind, there is no other alternative than to admit that, in this field of experience, we are dealing with individual phenomena and that our possibilities of handling the measuring instruments allow us only to make a choice between the different complementary types of phenomena we want to study.
To obtain an example of such a cyclic transformation let us take the system consisting of an electron which moves round a fixed positive nucleus exerting an attraction varying as the inverse square of the distance. To return to Rutherford; in view of the excitement following Roentgen's dis- covery of X-rays he dropped his wireless work and joined his professor (Easter 1896) in an investigation of the nature of the electrical conductivity which the rays imparted to gases. To show how this method can be applied I shall return for a moment to the problem which I mentioned in connection with Strutts experiment on the resonance radiation of sodium vapour.
To some early dis- closed aspects of such problems I shall have occasion to refer in con- tinuing the account of my reminiscences of Rutherford, but it would be beyond the scope of this Memorial Lecture to attempt a detailed account of the rapidly increasing insight in the intrinsic nuclear con- stitution, brought about by the work of the present generation of experimental and theoretical physicists. To such an utterance applies, of course, as well as to most of the sentences in this article from the beginning to the end, the recognition that our task can only be to aim at communicating experiences and views to others by means of language, in which the practical use of every word stands in a complementary relation to attempts of its strict definition.
To the first class belong most of the ordinary physical and chemical properties of substances, such as their state of aggregation, colour, and chemical reactivity. To the generalisation under consideration we are naturally led, if we first consider such systems for which the motions corresponding to the different degrees of freedom are dynamically independent of each other. To the one kind belong statements so simple and clear that the opposite assertion obviously could not be defended. To the results of these calculations we shall return in Part II.
To this most important question we shall return later, but first we will discuss how the interpretation of the hydrogen spectrum on the basis of the postulates has proved suitable in several ways, for elucidating the relation between the properties of the different elements. To this point we shall come back at the end of this section, when considering the simultaneous perturbing influence on the motion of the election in the hydrogen atom, due to the relativity modifications and an external electric field. To this point we shall come back below.
To this purpose, Einstein formulated general statistical rules regarding the occurrence of radiative transitions between stationary states, assuming not only that, when the atom is exposed to a radiation field, absorption as well as emission processes will occur with a probability per unit time proportional to the intensity of the irradiation, but that even in the absence of external disturbances spontaneous emission processes will take place with a rate corresponding to a certain a priori probability.
To this question we shall come back in the following parts of this paper; for the sake of simplicity, however, we shall not, in the considerations of this section, enter more closely on the consequences of the mentioned hypothesis, which would imply small modifications in the form of the following considerations, but would not affect the results. To this well-known development we shall have occasion to return, but I shall first proceed with the account of my reminiscences of Ruther- ford. To us the reasons for the shortcomings of these pioneer efforts to utilize physics and chemistry for a comprehensive explanation of the properties of living organisms are evident.
Today, as a consequence of the great honour the Swedish Academy of Sciences has done me in awarding me this year's Nobel Prize for Physics for my work on the structure of the atom, it is my duty to give an account of the results of this work and I think that I shall be acting in accordance with the traditions of the Nobel Foundation if I give this report in the form of a survey of the development which has taken place in the last few years within the field of physics to which this work belongs. Too little is known about the beryllium spectrum to draw conclusions about the binding of the fourth electron, but we may infer directly from the wellknown arc spectrum of magnesium that the 12th electron in the atom of this element is bound in a 31 orbit.
Too many fast penetrating H particles were observed and it seemed possible that some of them might arise from the source. Total 580/600 and although Rutherford was about half a year older than the average of the other provincial candidates this success was remark- able when considered against the background of the one-teacher schools he had attended.
Tracing the analogy between the two kinds of mechanical states, we might now expect the possibility of an absorption of radiation, not only corresponding to the p.lssing of the system between two different, stationary states, but also corresponding to the passing between one of the stationary: states and a state in which the electron is free ; and as above, we might expect that the frequency of this radiation was de- termined by the equation E = h v , where E is tlie difference between the total energy of the system in the two states. Transcribers Notes In footnote 2, the series of the first three papers were published in 1913 instead of 1918. Travelling in those days was a much simpler matter than it is to-day.
Two of the professors in particular influenced him, Cook whose mathematics was sound and orthodox and Bickerton who taught physics and chemistry and was highly original and stimulating although wide in his interests and enthusiasms and erratic in his methods. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff. Uitimssately of energy and momentum during the interaction every observation can of course be reduced to our between radiation and matter, as evident in the sense perceptions. Ultimately, quantum of action as compared to the actions involved every observation can, of course, be reduced to our sense in ordinary sense perceptions.
Ultimately, this viewpoint rests on the fineness of our senses, which for perception demands an interaction with the objects under investigation so small that in ordinary circumstances it is without appreciable influ- ence on the course of events. Under ordinary circumstances a hydrogen atom will probably exist only in the state corresponding to n = 1. Under the circumstances it would appear that most careful consideration should be given to the consequences ~rliich might ensue from an offer, extended at a well- tiined occasion, of immediate measures towards openness on a mutual basis.
Under the experimental conditions described such a measurement will therefore also provide us with the knowledge of the location, otherwise completely unknown, of the diaphragm with respect to this space frame when the particles passed through the slits. Under the impact of such difficulties, doubts were for a time entertained even regarding the conservation of energy and momentum in the individual radiation processes; a view, however, which very soon had to be abandoned in face of more refined experiments bringing out the correlation between the deflection of the photon and the corresponding electron recoil.
Under the influence of the electric field both the form of the orbit and its position undergo large changes, but certain properties of the orbit remain unchanged, and the surbordinate quantum number s is connected with these. Under the rational utilization of all possibilities of unambig- experimental conditions described such a meas- uous interpretation of measurements, compatible urement will therefore also provide us with the with the finite and uncontrollable interaction knowledge of the location, otherwise completely between the objects and the measuring instru- unknown, of the diaphragm with respect to this ments in the field of quantum theory.
Under these circumstances an essential element of ambiguity isinvolved in ascribing conventional physical attributes to atomic objects, as is at once evident in the dilemma regarding the corpuscular and wave properties of electrons and photons, where we have to do with contrasting pictures, each referring to an essential aspect of empirical evidence. Under these circumstances it is not surprising that with one and the I2 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE same experimental arrangement we may obtain different recordings individual quantum processes for the occur- corresponding to various Likewise we must rence of which only statistical account can be given.
Under these circumstances the hopes embodied in the establishment of the United Nations Organization have met with re- peated great disappointments and, in partiymgrtr, it has not been possible to obtain consent as regards control of atomic energy armaments. Under these circumstances, it is, of course, to a certain degree a matter of con venience to what extent the classical aspects of the phenomena are included in the proper quantum-me chanical treatment, where a distinction in principle is made between measuring instruments, the description of which must always be based on space-time pictures, and objects under investigation, about which observ able predictions can in general be derived only by the nonvisualizable formalism.
Unfortunately, however, we know very little of the behaviour of hydrogen atoms on account of the small dissociation of hydrogen molecules at ordinary temperatures. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg: 1.E.1. Unless, indeed, some about the of the use Of the new active materials can be obtained in due time, any tem- porary advantage, however great, may be outweighed by a perpetual menace to human security. Until the end of the war I endeavored by every way open to a scientist to stress the importance of ap- preciating the full political implications of the project and to advocate that, before there could be any ques- tion of use of atomic weapons, international coopera- tion be initiated on the elimination of the new men- aces to world security.
Up to the present time it has not been possible to obtain a satisfactory account based upon a consistent application of the quantum theory to the nuclear atom of the ultimate cause of the pronounced stability of certain arrangements of electrons. Using again rectangular coordinates with the nucleus at the origin and the z-axis parallel to the direction of the electric force, and calling the coordinates of the electrical centre , , , we have according to formula (74) 2 2 2 + + = 3 2 2 , = const. Using rectangular coordinates, and taking the nucleus as origin and the z-axis parallel to the external field, we get for the potential of the system relative to the external field, omitting an arbitrary constant, = eF z.
Using the formul (4) and (5) and neglecting the mass of the electron compared with that of the nucleus, we get, therefore, for the energy of the system in the two states respectively. Using the relation T = h 2 we get, by help o~ the above expressions for T and co, values for a and to corresponding to of Atoms and Molecules. Using this interpretation the combination principle asserts that a series of stationary states exists for the given system, and that it can pass from one to any other of these states with the emission of a monochromatic radiation.
Utterances of this kind would naturally in many minds evoke the impression of an underlying mysticism foreign to the spirit of science at the above mentioned Congress in 1936 I therefore tried to clear up such misunderstandings and to explain that the only question was an endeavour to clarify the conditions, in each field of knowledge, for the analysis and synthesis of experience. VI At the meeting of 1930, Langevin presided for the first time, after the demise of Lorentz, and spoke of the loss sustained by the Solvay Institute through the death of Ernest Solvay, by whose initiative and generosity the Institute was created. VI PREFACE classical physical ideas and has thrown new light on the demands on scientific explanation incorporated in traditional philosophy.
VI The outbreak of the First World War brought about an almost complete dissolution of the Manchester group, but I was lucky to remain in close contact with Rutherford, who in the spring of 1914 had invited me to succeed Darwin in the Schuster Readership of Mathematical Physics. VII From the beginning, Rutherford gathered around him in the Cavendish Laboratory a large and brilliant group of research workers. VII The conference of 1933, especially devoted to the Structure and Properties of Atomic Nuclei, took place at a time when this subject was in a stage of most rapid and eventful development. VIII The political events leading to the Second World War interrupted for many years the regular succession of the Solvay meetings, which were only resumed in 1948.
VIII Thoseyears, when a unique cooperation of a whole generation of theoretical physicists from many countries created step by step a logically consistent generalization of classical mechanics and elec- tromagnetism, have sometimes been described as the heroic era in quantum physics. Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching Project GutenbergTMs goals and ensuring that the Project GutenbergTM collection will remain freely available for generations to come. W e shall, for reasons referred to later, assume that the orbi~ in question is circular : this assumption will, however, make no alteration in the calculations for systems containing only a single electron.
W in our system is readily shown to be equal to the average value of the kinetic energy of the electron during a single revolution. W is greatest if ~- has its smallest value 1. W will continuously increase, and the electron will approach the nucleus de- scribing orbits of smaller and smaller dimensions, and with greater and greater frequency ; the electron on the average gaining in kinetic energy at the same time as the whole system loses energy. WAVE MECHANICS AND QUANTUM POSTULATE. WAVE MECHANICS AND THE QUANTUM set of variables characterizing the state of the system POSTULATE has given values, while the canonically conjugated vari Already in his first considerations concerning the wave ables are allowed to takeall possible values.
WHEN invited by the Editor of the series, Living Philosophers, to write an article for this volume in which contemporary scientists are honouring the epoch-making contributions of Albert Einstein to the progress of natural philosophy and are acknowledging the indebtedness of our whole generation for the guidance his genius has given us, I thought much of the best way of explaining how much I owe to him for inspiration. We all know how Pythagoras emphasized the importance of simple numerical relationships for musical harmonies as well as cosmology and how much significance the study of regular polychords had for Platos ideals of beauty and perfection. We are all very well at home and I start lectures tomorrow.
We are at the same stage of relative development as was the crude use of steam about 125 years ago except that we have a firmer basis of calculation of the results and the tempo of progress is quicker. We are encouraged to use results obtained from the spectra, since even the simple theory of the hydrogen spectrum gives a value for the major axis of the orbit of the electron in the normal state (n = 1) of the same order of magnitude as that derived from the kinetic theory of gases. We are here concerned with a general epistemological lesson illuminating our position in many other fields of human interest.
We are here concerned with a most fruitful development which has made it possible to formulate physical laws common to all observers and to link phenomena which hitherto appeared uncorrelated. We are here confronted with complementary relationships inherent in the human and unforgettably expressed in old position, Chinese philosophy, reminding us that in the great drama of existence we are ourselves both actors and spectators. We are now confronted with a most serious challenge to our whole civilization, to see to it that disastrous use of the formidable powers which have come into the hands of man be prevented, and that the great progress be turned into promoting the welfare of all human- ity.
We are now confronted with a most serious challenge to our whole civilization, to see to it that disastrous use of the formidable powers which have come into the hands of man be prevented, and that the great progress be turned into promoting the welfare of all humanity. We are therefore compelled to assume that in the case of the oscillator transitions can occur only between stationary states which are characterized by quantum numbers differing by only one unit, while in the hydrogen spectrum represented by formula (2) all possible transitions could take place between the stationary states given by formula (5).
We are therefore compelled to assume, that the classical electrodynamics does not agree with reality, or expressed more carefully, that it cannot be employed in calculating the absorption and emission of radiation by atoms. We are therefore immediately led to the following expression for the energy of the stationary states of the perturbed system, E = En + kh, (19) where En depends only upon the number n characterizing the stationary state of the unperturbed system, while k is a new whole number which in this case may be either positive or negative.
We are therefore obliged to be modest in our demands and content ourselves with concepts which are formal in the sense that they do not provide a visual picture of the sort one is accustomed to require of the explanations with which natural philosophy deals. We are thus led to assume that the interpretation of" the equation (2) is not that the different stationary states cor- respond to an emission of different numbers of energy-quanta, but that the frequency of the energy emitted during the passing of the system from a state in which no energy is yet radiated out to one of the different stationary states, is equal O9 to different multiples of 2' where ~ois the frequency of revo- lution of the electron in the state considered.
We are waiting for another Rutherford to gather up all the evidence and produce from it an outstanding generalization or new principle to light the path to a fuller understanding of these sub-universes and of the more basic laws of nature. We arrive, therefore, at the conclusion that transitions for which k changes by more than unity cannot occur. We assume that in the calculation of the frequency of revolution of the electron in the stationary states of the atom it will be possible to employ the above formula for . We can appreciate the endeavour to overcome the disadvantage of the lack of emulative stimulus of a small country school. We can avoid these difficulties if we use the ideas of the quantum theory.
We can count it fortunate for science and for Canada that his appointment was so timed. We can explain this by supposing the sodium atom to have been transferred from the normal state to the first state in the second row. We can only expect a closer connection between the Xray phenomena and the chemical properties of the elements, when the conditions on the surface of the atom are concerned. We can reach the temperature of 20 000 000 degrees or more only for millionths of a second and not for any length of time. We can see that it is possible to develop a formal theory of radiation, in which the spectrum of hydrogen and the simple spectrum of a Planck oscillator appear completely analogous.
We can, however (see w 3), also arrive at the expressions (3) for the stationary states by using assumptions of somewhat different form. We cannot expect to obtain a corresponding explanation of the frequency values of the other stationary states. We cannot say, for instance, that the above table of the atomic constitution of the inert gases may in every detail be considered as the unambiguous result of applying the correspondence principle. We cannot therefore expect these spectra to exhibit a separate effect due to the variation of the mass of the electron of the same kind as that found in the case of the hydrogen lines.
We did not have much equipment to share round and I had to watch that each rheostat and ammeter had as many hours use per day as possible and that each radioactive source was fully available. We do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. We find, however, that the lines fall into two groups each of which can be described by a formula of the type (14).
We get therefore the result, that, for the same shape and position of the original orbit, the cycle of shapes and positions passed through by the orbit during the increase of the external field will be the same as that which would appear for a constant perturbing field, and that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to 2 , the value of the function will consequently remain constant during the establishment of the field. We had stumbled in upon one of Dr Rutherford's brilliant demonstrations of radium. We have already seen how the hydrogen spectrum gives us definite information about the course of this process of binding the electron by the nucleus.
We have assumed that each hydrogen line is the result of a transition between two stationary states of the atom corresponding to different values of n. Equations (8) show that the frequency of revolution and the major axis of the orbit can be entirely different in the two states, since, as the energy decreases, the major axis of the orbit becomes smaller and the frequency of revolution increases. We have here a similar correspondence between the harmonic component in the motion, corresponding to definite values for and in formula (22), and the transition between two stationary states for which n0 n00 = and k 0 k 00 = .
We have here to do with a situation essentially different in character from the recourse to statistical methods in the practical dealing with complicated systems that are assumed to obey laws of classical mechanics. We have here to do with a typical example of how the complementary phenomena appear under mutually exclusive experimental arrangements and are just faced with the impossibility, in the analysis of quantum effects, of drawing any sharp separation between an independent behaviour of atomic objects and their interaction with the measuring instruments which serve to define the conditions under which the phenomena occur.
We have indeed been taught that the very concep tual frame, appropriate both to give account of our experience in everyday life and to formulate the whole system of laws applying to the behaviour of matter in bulk and constituting the imposing edifice of so-called classi cal physics, had to be essentially widened if it was to comprehend proper atomic phenomena. We have now come to a stage where atomic energy for civil power production is an economic proposition for many countries where conventional fuels are scarce or dear and as time goes on even these later limitations may disappear.
We have now, however, in the middle of the twentieth century arrived at a position where many people are becoming afraid that science, in some of its directions of advance, has become the arbiter of our destiny instead of the servant. We have on p. 9 assumed that the radiation in question was emitted during the passing of the systems begween stationary states corresponding to -r>2. We have strong evidence that uranium and radium behave similarly, only that the time rate of change is different. We have the most convincing evidence of this in spectra, that is, in the properties of the radiation emitted from substances in certain circumstances, which can be studied with such great precision. We have then for a small arbitrary variation of the orbit This equation was used in paper IV.
We have therefore Z 1 = eF cos r cos dt, 0 where is the angle between the z-axis and the major axis, taken in the direction from the nucleus to the aphelium, and where r is the length of the radius-vector from the nucleus to the electron, and the angle between this radius-vector and the major axis. We have, therefore, to examine how far this circumstance will affect the intended use of the whole arrangement and, as we shall see, this crucial point clearly brings out the complementary character of the phenomena.
We imagine the motion to be decomposed into purely harmonic oscillations, and the radiation is assumed to consist of the simultaneous emission of series of electromagnetic waves possessing the same frequency as these harmonic components and intensities which depend upon the amplitudes of the components. We know that thorium-X like uranium-X, loses its activity in a geometrical progression with time, yet the deactivized thorium regains its activity with time. We made our own f- and ac-ray electroscopes out of a largi can or other sheet metal box with a smaller tobacco or cigarette box placed on top.
We may not least base this hope on the inspiration the Congress will offer its members by the opportunity of exchanging knowledge and viewpoints derived from their individual experience in the many fields of research which comprise such rich promises for furthering the great goal of radiology. We may perhaps also point out, how the simple connexion between atomic number and nuclear charge offers an explanation of the laws governing the changes in chemical properties of the elements after expulsion of or ?-particles, which found a simple formulation in the so-called radioactive displacement law.
We may therefore assume that for this system there will exist a series of stationary states in which the motion of the outermost electron is approximately the same as in the stationary states of a hydrogen atom. We may therefore conclude that the stationary states of the perturbed system, corresponding to a given stationary state of the undisturbed system, will be characterised by the single condition I = nh, (58) in which n is an entire number, and which will be seen to be completely analogous to the condition which fixes the stationary states of ordinary periodic systems of several degrees of freedom. We may therefore expect that the inner system under the influence of the forces arising from the presence of the outer electron can in the course of time suffer only small changes.
We may therefore imagine the last stage of the binding process to take place in a manner similar to those stages corresponding to transitions between orbits characterized by greater values of n and k. In the normal state of the helium atom the two electrons must be assumed to move in equivalent 11 orbits. We meet here the quantum theory have been created through with a complementarity of the possibilities of the transformation theory of Dirac and Jordan, definition quite analogous to that which we have by the aid of which Heisenberg has formulated his considered earlier in connexion with the proper- general uncertainty relation (4). We meet the same difficulties when we try to explain in detail the characteristic effect of external forces upon the spectrum of hydrogen.
We meet with a direct application of the preceding considerations, if the hydrogen atom is exposed to the simultaneous influence of an external electric and an external magnetic field, which possess axial symmetry round a common axis through the nucleus. We might even expect it to be possible to construct a theory of these effects which would exhibit a formal analogy with the Voigt theory similar to that between the quantum theory of the normal Zeeman effect and the theory originally developed by Lorentz. We might now suppose that in general a number of different groups of such states might exist, each group corresponding to a different stationary state of the inner system considered by itself.
We might therefore possibly expect that the rearrangement of the electrons, consequent to the removal of more than one electron from a ring, would give rise to spectra of still higher frequency than those considered in this section. We must assume that in these states one electron revolves in an orbit outside the nucleus and the other electrons. We must assume that the mechanism of emission cannot be described in detail on the basis of the ordinary electrodynamics. We must be prepared to find, therefore, that the exact connection between the probability of a transition and the amplitude of the corresponding harmonic component in the motion is in general complicated like the connection between the frequency of the radiation and that of the component.
We must be prepared, however, to find that the weak components will not, as it might be expected at first sight, form two sets of distinctly separated lines, but that they will only appear as two diffuse lines of circular polarisation in opposite directions and of a spectral width proportional to .1 ) 6. We must be prepared, however, to find that these weak components will be so diffuse, that they are not separated from the weak perpendicular component which has the same frequency as the strong parallel components on each side of which the weak components under consideration would lie, and which appears as a consequence of the above mentioned want of sharpness as regards the polarisation of the strong components.
We must further conclude that the various possible transitions consist of two types. We must not forget, however, that the mechanism of emission in both cases is different. We must not imagine, however, that these visits into the inner system take place at the same time, but that the four electrons visit the nucleus separately at equal intervals of time. We must remember that the levels depend not only upon the constitution of the atom in the normal state, but also upon the configurations which appear after the removal of one of the inner electrons and which in contrast to the normal state do not possess a uniquely completed character.
We must remember that the states in the first row are simple, so when the atom has arrived in one of these it has lost every possibility of later giving any indication from which of the two states in the second row it originally came. We must therefore assume that the energy levels corresponding to the absorption edges indicate to a first approximation the amount of work that is required to remove an electron in one of the inner groups completely from the atom. We must therefore conclude that the outer electron in the normal state of the lithium atom moves in a 21 orbit, just as the outer electron in the metastable state of the helium atom.
We must therefore expect a more complicated ensemble of stationary states, if we are still to have a corresponding relation between the motions in the atom and the spectrum. We must therefore expect a spectrum consisting of an ensemble of spectral terms, which in general form a connected group, even though in the absence of external perturbing forces not every combination actually occurs. We must therefore expect that the absorption spectrum of a monatomic gas will contain only those lines of the series spectrum, whose emission corresponds to transitions to the normal state. We must thus assume that the 19th electron is bound in a new type of orbit, and a closer consideration shows that this will be a 41 orbit.
We must, however, not forget that we are living in times of rapid develop- ments in many fields of knowledge, reminiscent in such respect of the age of European Renaissance. We need not, however, enter more closely on these difficulties, because, on the general considerations in Part I about the a-priori probability of the different stationary states, we are forced to conclude that, for any value of the external electric field, no state which would correspond to n3 = 0 will be physically possible; since any such state might be transformed continuously, and without passing through a degenerate system, into a state which obviously cannot represent a physically realisable stationary state (compare page 49).
We need only to recall the lines leading from the pioneer work, in this venerable univer sity, of Malpighi and Spallanzani to modern embryology and bacteriology respectively, or from Galvani himself to the recent fascinating researches on nerve impulses. We obtain an example of this in the case of lithium with three electrons. We obtain direct information about the binding of the third electron from the spectrum of lithium. We obtain still another simple example in which the hydrogen atom possesses sharp stationary states, although the change of mass of the electron is considered, if we take an atom subject to a homogeneous magnetic field.
We obtain, therefore, a picture of the formation and structure of the lithium atom which offers a natural explanation of the great difference of the chemical properties of lithium from those of helium and hydrogen. We overcome this difficulty, however, as soon as we apply the principle of correspondence. We remember and always shall remember with affection his big energetic exuberant personality, the simplicity, sincerity and transparent honesty of his character, and perhaps most of all, his genius for friendship and good comradeship. We see a few miserable structures here and there occupied by a few starving professors who are nobly striving to do the best with the feeble means at their disposal.
We see consequently that the hypothesis of equal probability of the different states given by (10) gives the same result as ordinary statistical mechanics in all such applications in which the states of the great majority of the systems correspond to large values of n. Considerations of this kind have led Debye1 ) to point out that condition (10) might have a general validity for systems of one degree of freedom, already before Ehrenfest, on the basis of his theory of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states, had shown that this condition forms the only rational generalisation of Plancks condition (9).
We see how it has been possible to connect the occurrence of every spectral term with the presence of an electron moving in an orbit of a definite type, to the removal of which this term is supposed to correspond. We see that it has been possible to obtain a certain general insight into the origin of the series spectra of a type like that of sodium. We see that it is possible by making use of a few simple ideas to obtain a certain insight into the origin of the series spectra. We see that the only difference in the above formula and those holding for the motion of a single electron in a circular o,-bit round a nucleus is the exchange of E for E esn.
We see that these values are of the same order of magnitude as the distance observed by Stark between the two components polarized parallel to the electric force. We see that this assumption is equivalent to the assertion that transitions occur only between two successive stationary states in sharp contrast to the hydrogen atom. We see that this expression accounts for the law connecting the lines in the spectrum of hydrogen. We see, indeed, that in this case the electric force acting on the outer electron will to a first approximation be the same as that acting upon the electron in the hydrogen atom, and the approximation will be the better the larger the orbit.
We see, therefore, that Plancks result may be interpreted to mean, that the oscillator can emit and absorb radiation only in radiation quanta of magnitude E = h. (3) It is well known that ideas of this kind led Einstein to a theory of the photoelectric effect. We see, therefore, that the frequency of the radiation emitted by a transition between two stationary states, for which the numbers n0 and n00 are large in proportion to their difference, will coincide with the frequency of one of the components of the radiation, which according to the ordinary ideas of radiation would be expected from the motion of the atom in these states, provided the last factor on the righthand side of equation (10) is equal to 1.
We see, therefore, that with a simple extension of our first assumption it is possible to give a formal explanation of the most general law of line spectra. We shall assume the hydrogen atom simply to consist of a positively charged nucleus with a single electron revolving about it. We shall assume, according to Rutherfords theory, that an atom consists of a positively charged nucleus with a num Address delivered before the Physical Society in Berlin, April 27, 1920. ber of electrons revolving about it. We shall commence by considering the simplest atom conceivable, namely, an atom consisting of a nucleus and one electron.
We shall conclude the considerations of this Part by a brief discussion of the characteristic continuous spectrum of hydrogen in the ultra violet region, which is intimately connected with the series spectrum given by (35). We shall in w 3 return to consider the possible importance of the agreement in question. We shall not consider the arc spectrum which is emitted during the capture of the 20th electron but the spark spectrum which corresponds to the capture and binding of the 19th electron. We shall not enter here on the details of the calculation leading to (68), but shall only show how this formula may be simply interpreted from the point of view of perturbed periodic systems.
We shall not enter here on these calculations but shall only consider some points in connection with the problem of the mechanical transformability of the stationary states which are of importance for the logical consistency of the general theory and for the later applications. We shall not enter here on these problems but shall confine ourselves to the problem of the fixation of the two quantum numbers n and k, which to a first approximation describe the orbit of the outer electron in the stationary states, and whose determination is a matter of prime importance in the following discussion of the formation of the atom.
We shall not enter, however, on the details of the rather intricate calculations involved in such a consideration, since the problems in question allow of a more elegant treatment by means of another analytical method. We shall not here enter more closely on this difficulty which has been pointed out by Ehrenfest, because it disappears when we consider systems of several degrees of freedom, where we shall see that a simple generalisation of (10) holds for any system for which every motion is periodic.
We shall not, however, proceed in this way, but shall come back to these questions when we have shown how, by a simple modification of the general considerations of perturbed periodic systems given in 2, it is possible to represent the theory of the stationary states of the hydrogen atom in the presence of a small magnetic field on a form, which allows to discuss the effect on the hydrogen spectrum also if the atom is exposed to a magnetic field which is not homogeneous, or to discuss the effect of a homogeneous magnetic field if electric forces, which do not possess axial symmetry round an axis through the nucleus parallel to the magnetic field, are acting on the atom at the same time.
We shall now assume that this decrease in the harmony will so to say open the previously closed configuration of electrons in orbits of these types. We shall now consider more closely the correspondence between the changes in the spectrum of hydrogen due to the presence of an electric field and the decomposition of the perturbed motion of the atom into its harmonic components. We shall now consider the second part of the foundation on which we shall build, namely the conclusions arrived at from experiments with the rays emitted by radioactive substances. We shall now consider the structure of atoms of elements in the third period of the periodic system.
We shall now discuss the relation between the theory of spectra of atomic systems of one degree of freedom, based on (1) and (10), and the ordinary theory of radiation, and we shall see that this relation in several respects shows a close analogy to the relation, just considered, between the statistical applications of (10) and considerations based on ordinary statistical mechanics. We shall now proceed to investigate the effect of small perturbing forces upon the spectrum of the simple system consisting of a single electron revolving about a nucleus. We shall now return to the discussion (see p. 7) of the special assmnptions used in deducing the expressions (3) on p. 5 for the stationary states of a system consisting' of an electron rotating round a nucleus.
We shall now return to the main object of this paper the discussion of the " permanent" state of a system consisting of nuclei and bound electrons. We shall now see how the conception of atomic structure developed in the preceding pages offers a simple interpretation of these facts. We shall now see that we can leave the assumption used and still retain the equation ('2) oll p. 5, and thereby the formal analogy with Planck's theory. We shall return to this question again later.
We shall see, however, that it is possible to give a very simple explanation of the general empirical laws for the frequencies of the spectral lines, if for each emission of radiation by the atom we assume the fundamental law to hold, that during the entire period of the emission the radiation possesses one and the same frequency , connected with the total energy emitted by the frequency relation h = E 0 E 00 .
We shall show, however, that the conditions which will be used to determine the values of the energy in the stationary states are of such a type that the frequencies calculated by (1), in the limit where the motions in successive stationary states comparatively differ very little from each other, will tend to coincide with the frequencies to be expected on the ordinary theory of radiation from the motion of the system in the stationary states. We shall therefore as before consider the motion of the unperturbed hydrogen atom as simply periodic and inquire in the first place about the stationary states corresponding to this motion. We shall therefore assume that each Xray line is due to a transition between two stationary states of the atom.
We shall therefore conclude that, also in the presence of external magnetic forces, the lines of the hydrogen spectrum will, if only the secular perturbations are of conditionally periodic type, be split up in a number of sharp components, the frequencies of which are determined by means of the conditions (67) together with relation (1). We shall thus expect in the sixth period to meet with a new stage in the development of the group with 4quanta orbits. We shall, therefore, postpone the discussion of the special assumptions, and first show how by the help of the above principal assumptions, and of the expressions (3) for the stationary states, we can account for the line-spectrum of hydrogen.
We should therefore expect that the appearance of the Xray spectra would depend not only upon the direct interaction between a single electron and the nucleus, but also on the manner in which the electrons are arranged in the completely formed atom. We stand here almost entirely on virgin ground, and upon introducing new assumptions we need only take care not to get into contradiction with experiment. We stroll, however, see that, by help of the above theory, we can account naturally for these series of lines if we ascribe them to helium. We talked about Ernest's great life in which from their early youth she had been so faithful a companion, and how to me he had almost been as a second father.
We talked about Ernest's great life, in which from their early youth she had been so faithful a companion, and how to me he had almost been as a second father. We talked especially about the discovery of the electron spin, whose dramatic history has recently been illuminated from many sides in the Pauli Memorial Volume. We therefore meet conditions which are essentially different from those which we have considered in connection with the previous periods, so that here we have to do with the successive development of one of the inner groups of electrons in the atom, in this case with groups of electrons in 3quanta orbits.
We thus arrive at a manifold of stationary states for which the major axis of the electron orbit takes on a series of discrete values proportional to the squares of the whole numbers. We thus see that the impossibility of carrying through a causal representation of quantum phenomena is directly connected with the assumptions underlying the use of the most elementary concepts which come into consideration for the description of experience. We thus understand immediately that in ordinary circumstances a gas or vapour can only show selective absorption for spectral lines that are produced by a transition from a state corresponding to an earlier stage in the binding process to the normal state. We used to be told that the contributions of heredity and environment were about 50:50.
We were thus confronted with a novel kind of complementary relationship between the applications of different fundamental concepts of classical physics, the study of which in the course of time was to make the limited scope of deterministic description evident and to call for an essentially statistical account of even the most elementary atomic processes. We will meet with applications of the above considerations when considering the effect on the hydrogen spectrum of the combined action of different external fields and when considering the effect of an external field on the spectra of other elements, which latter problem will be discussed in Part III.
We would anticipate that a transition for which (n0 n00 ) + (k 0 k 00 ) is even would give rise to a component with an electric vector parallel to the field, while a transition for which (n0 n00 ) + (k 0 k 00 ) is odd would correspond to a component with an electric vector perpendicular to the field. What has been said here applies not alone to the formation of the lithium atom, but may also be assumed to apply to the binding of the third electron in every atom, so that in contrast to the first two electrons which move in 11 orbits this may be assumed to move in a 21 orbit. What is right for one country is not necessarily right for another at the same time and what is right for one brief period of history is not necessarily always right.
Whatever judi- cial and administrative international authorities may eventually have to be created in order to stabilize world affairs, it must be realized that full mutual openness, only, can effectively promote confidence and guarantee common security. Whatever the alteration in the laws of motion of the electrons may be, it seems necessary to introduce in the laws in question a quantity foreign to the electric dynamos,nies, i. e. Planck's constant, or as it often is called the elementary quantum of action. When I had the great experience of meeting Einstein for the first time during a visit to Berlin in 1920, these fundamental questions formed the theme of our conversations.
When I look back and consider, in the light of modern knowledge of safety standards, the nearness of our heads and bodies to the large sources of emanation and the time of exposure to the radiation I marvel that it did us so little physical harm. When I turned to Rutherford to learn his reaction to such ideas, he expressed, as always, alert interest in any promising simplicity but warned with characteristic caution against overstressing the bearing of the atomic model and extrapolating from comparatively meagre experi- mental evidence.
When considering more closely the frequencies of these new components, it must be remembered, however, that, as mentioned above, the present method of treating the problem of the perturbations assures us of the conditionally periodic character of the motion of the electron within a time interval of the same order of magnitude as /, only if we look apart from small quantities of the same order as 2 ; and we must therefore be prepared to find that the frequencies of the vibrations of small amplitudes will not be defined with the same degree of approximation as the frequencies of the vibrations of large amplitudes.
When considering the atomic structure of elements which contain more than two electrons in the neutral atom, we shall assume first of all that what has previously been said about the formation of the helium atom will in the main features also apply to the capture and binding of the first two electrons. When discussing the secular perturbations of the shape and position of the orbit, we see therefore in the first place that the variations of 1 may be left out of consideration. When of so- approaching the age-old problem of the foundation called ethical valueswe shall in the first place ask about the scope of such concepts as justice and charity, the closest possible combination of which is attempted in all human societies.
When regard is taken to the two opposite directions in which the particle may rotate round the axis of the field, we see therefore that for this system a state corresponding to a given combination of n1 and n2 in the presence of the field can be established in 2n2 different ways. When such combinations of these very light nuclei occur there is a loss of mass. When the centre has returned to its starting point, the orbit will resume its original eccentricity and position, and from this moment the entire cycle of orbits will be repeated.
When the philistine reproaches the licentiate for not having made up his mind to use the opportunities for finding a practical job, offered him by the kindness of his friends, the poor licentiate apologizes most sincerely, but explains the difficulties into which his reflections have brought him. When the variation of the mass is taken into account the motion of the unperturbed atom will not be exactly periodic. When the war ended and the great menaces of op- pression to so many peoples had disappeared, an in~mense relief was felt all over the world. When they are disturbed they some- times radiate but the wave-length or colour of the light they emit is not random and continuous but falls into the sharp lines of the hydrogen spectrum.
When thinking of the establishment of the principles of mechanics, which were to become the very foundations of physical science, it is, in this conNection, not without interest to realize that Archimedes' discovery of the principle of equilibrium of floating objects, which, according to a familiar tradition, was suggested to him by the sensation of uplift of his own body in a bath tub, might just as well have been based on common experience regarding the loss of weight of stones in water. When this is not the case, as in the region of atomic physics, there appear new uniformities which cannot be fitted into the frame of the ordinary causal description (A,).
When viewed parallel to the direction of the field, there appeared a number of components polarised parallel to the field and a number of components polarised perpendicular to the field; when viewed in the direction of the field, only the latter components appeared, but without showing characteristic polarisation. When we approach the problems of psychology we enter into a new domain of knowledge where the question of analysis and synthesis has attracted vivid interest through the ages. When we consider a degenerate system, however, we cannot assume that the different stationary states are a-priori equally probable.
When we consider how differently the equation is employed here and in Plancks theory it appears to me misleading to use this analogy as a foundation, and in the account I have given I have tried to free myself as much as possible from it. When we consider the atomic theory, we are, however, in the peculiar position that there can be no question of an explanation in this last sense, since here we have to do with phenomena which from the very nature of the case are simpler than in any other field ofobservation, where the phenomena are always conditioned by the combined action of a large number of atoms.
When we consider the binding not of the first but of the subsequent electrons in the atom, the orbit of the electron under considerationat any rate in the latter stages of the binding process where the electron last bound comes into intimate interaction with those previously boundwill no longer be to a near approximation a closed ellipse, but on the contrary will to a first approximation be a central orbit of the same type as in the hydrogen atom, when we take into account the change with velocity in the mass of the electron. When we consider the elements following sodium in the third period of the periodic system we meet in the binding of the 12th, 13th and 14th electrons conditions which are analogous to those we met in the binding of the 4th, 5th and 6th electrons.
When we look back on the whole development we recognize indeed that the discovery of the concentration of the mass of the atom within a region so small compared with its extension has been the clue to the understanding of an immense field of experience embracing the crystalline structure of solids as well as the complex molecular systems which carry the genetic characters of living organisms. When we pass to perturbed periodic systems of more than two degrees of freedom, the general problem is more complex. When we proceed in this system, the following electrons are bound in 3-quantum orbits, until, after the conclusion of the third period of the system, we encounter for the first time, in elements of the fourth period, electrons in 4-quantum orbits, and so on.
When we proceed to the 7th period of the system, we meet for the first time with 7-quantum orbits, and we shall expect to find within this period features that are essentially similar to those in the 6th period, in that besides the first stage in the development of the 7-quantum orbits, we must expect to encounter further stages in the development of the group with 6or 5quantum orbits.
When we read in the recent book by Dean (The report of the atom) that for the last decade nearly 5 0 of the huge construction resources of the U.S.A. have been applied to the testing out and application of the single idea and uses of atomic energy and largely for weapons of destruction, and no doubt a similar effort has been made in the U.S.S.R., we begin to appreciate a little of what is meant by certain ideas of man's mastery over nature and the high importance in national and world affairs of what Sir Henry Tizard calls the 'strategy of applied science'.
When we treat this question on the basis of the ordinary mechanical and electrodynamical theories it is impossible to find a starting point for an explanation of the marked properties exhibited by the various elements, indeed not even of their permanency. When we try to apply assumptions, analogous with C and D, to systems containing more than one electron, we meet with difficulties, since in this case the application of ordinary mechanics in general does not lead to periodic orbits. When we usually refer to a machine as dead, we mean scarcely anything else than that we are able to describe the circumstances essential for its functioning by means of the conceptions of classical physics.
When, however, the distances are of the same order of magnitude as the distance between the components of the original double line, the aspect of the system of lines gradually alters. When, however, the system is perturbed, for instance by an arbitrary small central force, there will in the Fourier expressions for the displacements of the particle, in addition to the main terms corresponding to the fundamental frequencies 1 and 2 , appear a number of small terms corresponding to frequencies given by 1 1 + 2 2 where 1 and 2 are entire numbers which may be positive as well as negative.
When, however, there are perturbing forces from the inner electrons the latter condition is not satisfied, and thus the effect of an external electric field on the stationary states may be expected to be much smaller than for the corresponding states of the hydrogen atom. When, in recognition of his position in science, Rutherford was given a British peerage, he took a keen interest in his new responsibilities as a member of the House of Lords, but there was certainly no change in the directness and simplicity of his behaviour.
When, in the beginning of the nineteen thirties, as an extension to the Cavendish, the Mond Laboratory was created on Rutherford's ini- tiative for the promotion of Kapitza's promising projects, Kapitza wanted in its decoration to give expression for his joy in Rutherford's friendship. Where can the discoverer in pure science earn more than the wages of a day laborer or cook? Where it is necessary to differentiate between orbits corresponding to various values of the quantum number k, a central orbit, characterized by given values of the quantum numbers n and k, will be referred to as an nk orbit. Where the neutral atom contains more than one electron, we find much more complicated motions with correspondingly complicated harmonic components.
Where, then, are the greatest laboratories of research in this city, in this country, nay, in the world? Whether our actual meetings have been of short or long duration, they have always left a deep and lasting impression on my mind, and when writing this report I have, so-to-say, been arguing with Einstein all the time even when entering on topics apparently far removed from the special problems under debate at our meetings.
While Debye proceeds directly by the application of the conditions (22) in a fixed set of positional polar coordinates, Sommerfeld determines the stationary states by applying these conditions to the motion of the system relative to a set of coordinates which rotates uniformly round the polar axis with the frequency vH ; a procedure which in the special case under consideration is simply shown to give the same result as the direct application of (22) to fixed polar coordinates. While Euclidean geometry sufficed for Archimedes' elucidation of fundamental problems of static equilibrium, the detailed description of the motion of material bodies demanded the development of the infinitesimal calculus on which the imposing edifice of Newtonian mechanics rests.
While J. J. Thomson's brilliant researches soon brought to light the essential part played by electrons in most varied physical and chemical phenomena, our knowledge of the structural units of matter was, however, not completed until Rutherford's discovery of the atomic nucleus, crowning his pioneer work on the spontaneous radioactive transmutations of certain heavy elements. While Pauli joined our group already in the same year, Heisenberg stayed for another year in Munich at Sommer- feld's advice to complete his doctoral thesis. While about 13 volts was sufficient to excite the lines of the Balmer series, about 80 volts was found necessary to excite the other series.
While an element like titanium in the fourth period already shows a marked tendency to occur with various valencies, on the other hand an element like zirconium is still quadrivalent like carbon in the second period and silicon in the third. While by Kapitza' s bold constructions it had become possible to produce magnetic fields of unsurpassed strength within limited spatial extensions and time intervals, the ingenious design by Cotton of huge permanent magnets than permitted to obtain fields of a constancy and extension greater hitherto available.
While early developments of astronomy, geodesy and metallurgy in Egypt, Mesopotamia, India and China were primarily directed to serve requirements of the community, it is in ancient Greece that we first meet with systematic endeavours to clarify the basic principles for the description and ordering of knowledge. While for the initial states of the binding process, where the quantum numbers are large, the orbit of the last electron captured lies completely outside of those of the previously bound electrons, this is not the case for the last stages.
While helium possesses the highest known ionization potential of all the elements, the binding of the electron in the hydrogen atom is sufficiently loose to account for the tendency of hydrogen to form positive ions in aqueous solutions and chemical combinations. While in contradiction to the classical electromagnetic theory no radiation takes place from the atom in the stationary states themselves, a process of transition between two stationary states can be accompanied by the emission of electromagnetic radiation, which will have the same properties as that which would be sent out according to the classical theory from an electrified particle executing an harmonic vibration with constant frequency.
While in the above way it was possible to obtain a simple interpretation of certain main features of the hydrogen spectrum, it was not found possible in this way to account in detail for such phenomena in which the deviation of the motion of the particles from a simple Keplerian motion plays an essential part. While it has been assumed that the ions of the elements in the previous periods, whether positively or negatively charged, contain configurations of marked symmetrical character, we must, however, be prepared to encounter a definite lack of symmetry in the electronic configurations in ions of those elements within the fourth period which contain a group of electrons in 3quanta orbits in the transition stage between symmetrical configurations of 8 and 18 electrons respectively.
While n1 may take the values 0, 1, 2, . While possibilities still existed of immediate results of the negotiations within the TJnited Nations on an arrangement of the use of atomic energy guaranteeing common security, I have been reluctant in taking part in the public debate on this question. While so far it had been clear that energy content and other invariant quantities could be strictly defined only for isolated systems, Heisenberg's analysis revealed the extent to which the state of an atomic system is influenced during any observation by the unavoidable interaction with the measuring tools.
While such an interpretation of the properties of matter appeared as a realisation, even surpassing the dreams of the Pythagoreans, of the ancient ideal of reducing the formulation of the laws of nature to considerations of pure numbers, the basic assump tion of the individuality of the atomic processes involved at the same time an essential renunciation of the detailed causal connection between physical events, which through the ages had been the unquestioned foundation of natural philosophy. While such developments of theoretical conceptions were still to come, reports were given at the conference of recent experimental progress regarding characteristic features of the interaction between radiation and matter.
While the X-ray spectra vary uniformly with the atomic number, the atomic volumes show a characteristic periodic change which corresponds exactly to the change in the chemical properties of the elements. While the characteristic change of the chemical properties with atomic number is due to the gradual development and completion of the groups of the loosest bound electrons, the characteristic absence of almost every trace of a periodic change in the Xray spectra is due to two causes.
While the combination of these concepts into a single picture of a causal chain of events is the essence of classical mechanics, room for regularities beyond the grasp of such a description is just afforded by the circumstance that the study of the complementary phenomena demands mutually exclusive experimental arrangements. While the course of time be subject to such changes that it physical content of the light quantum idea is becomes less and less suitable for representing an wholly connected with the conservation theorems for individual.
While the electricdensity corresponding to the electron sea may be neutralized by an analogous treatment of the proton problem, a compensation of the negative energy density may require the drawing of the positivezero-point field energyinto the picture. While the electron in the states of the type first mentioned may be said to be bound by the nucleus to form an atom, it may in the states of the last mentioned type be described as free.
While the emission of the hydrogen spectrum, like the emission of the ordinary optical spectra of other elements, may be assumed to be connected with the binding of an electron by an atom, observations on the appearance and absorption of Xray spectra clearly indicate that these spectra are connected with a process which may be described as a reorganization of the electronic arrangement after a disturbance within the atom due to the effect of external agencies. While the explanation of the radioactive disintegrations had to be sought in the intrinsic constitution of the nucleus, it was evident that the ordinary physical and chemical characteristics of the elements manifested properties of the surrounding electron system.
While the first postulate has in view the general stability of the atom, the second postulate has chiefly in view the existence of spectra with sharp lines. While the group of electrons in 2-quantum orbits has been entirely completed at the end of the 2nd period, the development that the group of 3-quantum orbits undergoes in the course of the 3rd period can therefore only be described as a provisional completion, and, as shown in the table, this electron group will, in the bracketed elements of the 4th period, undergo a stage of further development in which electrons are added to it in 3-quantum orbits.
While the intensity naturally cannot depend upon the number of atoms in the final state, it is to be noticed, however, that in estimating the probability of a transition between two stationary states it is necessary to consider the character of the motion in the final as well as in the initial state, since the values of the amplitudes of the components of oscillation of both states are to be regarded as decisive for the probability.
While the largest spectral term with term number I corresponds to the final stage in the binding process, the small spectral terms that have larger values of the term number correspond to stationary states which represent the initial states of the binding process, where the electron orbits still have large dimensions, and where the work required to remove an electron from the nucleus is still small. While the latter consists of simple lines, the former possesses narrow doublets.
While the nucleus theory has been of great utility in explaining many important properties of the atom, on the other hand it is evident that it is impossible by its aid to explain many other fundamental properties if we base our considerations on the ordinary electrodynamical theory; but this can hardly be considered as a valid objection at the present time.
While the origin of the arc and spark spectra was to this extent immediately interpreted on the basis of the original simple theory of the hydrogen spectrum, it was Sommerfelds theory of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines which first gave us a clear insight into the characteristic difference between the hydrogen spectrum and the spark spectrum of helium on the one hand, and the arc and spark spectra of other elements on the other.
While the preceding considerations, which deal with the determination of the energy in the stationary states of the hydrogen atom, allow to determine the frequency of the radiation which would be emitted during a transition between two such states, they leave quite untouched the problem of the actual occurrence of these transitions in the luminous gas, and therefore give no direct information about the numseems natural to assume that the rate, at which radiation is emitted during a transition between two stationary states, is of the same order of magnitude as the rate, at which radiation would be emitted from the system in these states according to ordinary electrodynamics.
While the present account may perhaps add to the general recognition of the difficulties with which every nation was confronted by the coincidence of a great upheaval in world affairs with a veritable revolution as regards technical resources, it is in no way meant to imply that the situation does not still offer unique opportunities. While the principal theme of the meeting was the phenomena of magnetism, it is interesting to recall that at that time great advances had also been made in the treatment of other aspects of the properties of matter. While the ring for the latter displacements in general is stable if the number of electrons is not great; the ring is in no case considered by bTicholson stable for displacements of the first kind.
While the significance of this aspect of Moseleys discovery was at once clear to all, it has on the other hand been more difficult to understand the very great similarity between the spectrum of hydrogen and the Xray spectra.
While the spark spectrum of magnesium exhibits great similarity with the sodium spectrum as regards the values of the spectral terms in the various seriesapart from the fact that the constant appearing in formula (12) is four times as large as the Rydberg constantwe meet in the spark spectrum of calcium the remarkable condition that the first term of the D series is larger than the first term of the P series and is only a little smaller than the first term of the S series, which may be regarded as corresponding to the binding of the 19th electron in the normal state of the calcium atom.
While the spectrum of potassium indicates that the 41 orbit corresponds to a binding which is more than twice as firm as in a 33 orbit corresponding to the first spectral term in the D series, the conditions are entirely different as soon as calcium is reached. While the wave or phase velocity is given Rayleighs investigation of the resolving power of spectral apparatusexpress the condition that the wave-trains by v/::, the group-velocity is defined by dv/aa.
While these considerations allow to determine the possible values for the total energy of the perturbed system and thereby the frequencies of the components into which the lines of the spectrum of the undisturbed system are split up in the presence of the external field, it is necessary, however, for the discussion of the intensities and polarisations of these components to consider more closely the motion of the particles in the perturbed system and the relation of the total energy of this system to the fundamental frequencies which characterise the motion. While this condition is amply fulfilled in phenomena on the ordinary scale, we meet in experimental evidence concerning atomic particles with regularities of a novel type, incompatible with deter- ministic analysis.
While this paper was in course of preparation, a theoretical paper dealing with the same subject was published by E. Warburg ( Verh. While this procedure is justified by the analogous structure of the trivalent ions of these elements, our more detailed ideas of atomic structure suggest, however, marked differences in the physical properties of aluminium and scandium, originating in the essentially different character of the way in which the last three electrons in the neutral atom are bound. While until now it has not been possible, however, to give any theoretical basis for such a development of an inner group, we see that our extension of the quantum theory provides us with an unforced explanation.
While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate. While we obtain a fairly good agreement for the levels corresponding to the removal of one of the innermost electrons in the atom by using the simple formula (11), it is, however, already necessary to take the influence of the other electrons into consideration in making an approximate calculation of the levels corresponding to a removal of an electron from one of the outer groups in the atom.
While within the scope of classical physics we are dealing with an idealization, according to which all phenomena can be arbitrarily sub- divided, and the interaction between the measuring instruments and the object under observation neglected, or at any rate compensated for, it was stressed that such interaction represents in quantum physics an 92 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE integral part of thephenomena, for which no separate account can be given the if instruments shall serve the purpose of defining the con- ditions under which the observations are obtained.
While, during the war, the efforts in common defense largely distracted attention from such divergencies, it was clear that the realization of the hopes acclaimed from all the nations united against aggression of a whole- hearted co-operation in true confidence would demand a radically new approach to international relations. While, however, in classi- customary separation of space and time ideas.
While, however, in classical physics the distinction between object and measuring agencies does not entail any difference in the character of the description of the phenomena concerned, its fundamental importance in quantum theory, as we have seen, has its root in the indispensable use of classical concepts in the interpretation of all proper measurements, even though the classical theories do not suffice in accounting for the new types of regularities with which we are concerned in atomic physics.
While, in his work, Planck was principally concerned with considerations of essentially statistical character and with great caution refrained from definite conclusions as to the extent to which the existence of the quantum implied a departure from the foundations of mechanics and electrodynamics, Einstein's great original contribution to quantum theory (1905) was just the recognition of how physical phenomena like the photo-effect may depend directly on individual quantum effects.
While, so far, relatively few persons had taken part in the discussions reported in this article, Einstein's critical attitude towards the views on quantum theory adhered to by many physicists was soon after brought to public attention through a paper with the title Can Quantum-Mechanical Description of Physical Reality Be Considered Complete?, published in 1935 by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen. While, within the scope of classical physics, the interaction between object and apparatus can be neglected or, if necessary, compensated for, in quantum physics this interaction thus forms an inseparable part of the phenomenon.
Willows had to rush with Rutherford from room to room in a breathless series of measurements which could not be delayed and the discussions had to take place en route or during the course of the measurements. Wilson who by the ingenious cloud chamber method had just then obtained the first photographs of tracks of "-rays exhibiting clear cases of sharp bends in their usual remarkably straight path. Win comparison to the size of the atom, The renunciation regarding space-time pictures charac- the propagation of which indefinitely approaches the terizing this treatment would seem to offer a striking classical picture of moving material particles, if the indication of the complementary character of the quan- quantum numbers are chosen sufficiently large.
With Moseley's extraordinary energy and gifts of purposeful experimentation, his work developed astonishingly quickly, and already in November, 1913, I received a most interesting letter from him with an account of his important results and with some questions regarding their interpretation on the lines which had proved applicable to the optical spectra. With a characteristic example of these considerations we meet in the case of the spectrum of a hydrogen atom exposed to an external field of force which possesses axial symmetry round an axis through the nucleus. With a field of 13,000 volt per cm.
With a simple example, in which the secular perturbations of the atom seem not to be of conditionally periodic type, we meet if we consider the simultaneous effect on the hydrogen spectrum of an external homogeneous electric field and a homogeneous magnetic field, the directions of which make an angle with each other. With allappreciation of Planck's happy choice of words when intro- ducing the concept of a universal "quantum of action", or the sug- gestive value of the idea of "intrinsic spin", it must be realized that such notions merely refer to relationships between well-defined experi- mental evidence which cannot be comprehended by the classical mode of description.
With and dynamical his ingenious representation of kinematical quantities through non-commutable symbols the foundation had indeed been laid on which the further development was to rest. With applications of these considerations we will meet in Part II in connection with the discussion of Sommerfelds theory of the fine structure of the hydrogen lines and in Part III in connection with the problem of the appearance of new series in the spectra of other elements under the influence of intense external electric fields. With best wishes to you and Mrs. Bohr.
With characteristic clearness and emphasis on essentials he also dis- cussed the problems raised by Dirac's ingenious quantum theory of the electron, in which the relativistic wave equation proposed by Klein and Gordon was replaced by a set of first-order equations the intrinsic spin and mag- allowing the harmonious incorporation of netic moment of the electron. With full appreciation of the extraordinary character of the decisions which the proposed initia- tive involved, it still appeared to me that great oppor- tunities would be lost unless the problems raised by the atomic development were incorporated into the plans of the allied nations for the postwar world.
With his great experience of scintillation experiments from the old Manchester days when, in collaboration with Geiger, he performed the experi- ments which led Rutherford to his discovery of the atomic nucleus, Marsden helped him to clear up some apparent anomalies in the distribution of the high-speed protons released by the statistical bombardment of nitrogen with a-rays. With his insati ":le curiosity for all aspects of life, Rutherford had great esteem for his learned Ileagues ; however, I remember how he once remarked, on our way back from nnity, that to his mind so-called humanists went a bit too far when expressing nde in their complete ignorance of what happened in between the pressing of a utton at their front door and the sounding of a bell in the kitchen."
With his insatiable curiosity for all aspects of life, Rutherford had great esteem for his learned colleagues; however, I remember how he once remarked, on our way back from Trinity, that to his mind so-called humanists went a bit too far when expressing pride in their complete ignorance of what happened in between the pressing of a button at their front door and the sounding of a bell in the kitchen. With his liberal human attitude, Rutherford had tried to obtain permission for the glass blower to continue his work in England in the wartime, but the man's temper, not uncommon for artisans in his field, releasing itself in violent super-patriotic utterances, eventually led to his internment by the British authorities.
With his penetrating intuition, Rutherford was early aware of the the existence and stability strange and novel problems presented by of composite nuclei. With his vigilant .g ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE Rutherford, when he had attention to progress in physical science, all received Stark' s paper from the Prussian Academy, at once wrote to me: "I think it is rather to at the present time to write some- up you electric effects, if it is possible to reconcile thing on the Zeeman and them with your theory." With increasing atomic number a point will therefore be reached where a 33 orbit will correspond to a firmer binding of the 19th electron than a 41 orbit, and this occurs as early as at the beginning of the fourth period.
With increasing field strength Paschen and Back found that this anomalous Zeeman effect changed into the normal Lorentz triplet of a single line by a gradual fusion of the components. With increasing nuclear charge and the consequent decrease in the difference between the fields of force inside and outside the region of the orbits of the first 18 bound electrons, the dimensions of those parts of a 41 orbit which fall outside will approach more and more to the dimensions of a 4quantum orbit calculated on the assumption that the interaction between the electrons in the atom may be neglected.
With increasing nuclear charge we shall have to expect not only that an electron in a 53 orbit will be bound more firmly than in a 61 orbit, but we must also expect that a moment will arrive when during the formation of the atom a 44 orbit will represent a firmer binding of the electron than an orbit of 5 or 6quanta, in much the same way as in the elements of the fourth period a new stage in the development of the 3quanta group was started when a point was reached where for the first time the 19th electron was bound in a 33 orbit instead of in a 41 orbit.
With intense beams, this pattern is built up by the accumulation of a large number of individual processes, each giving rise to a small spot on the photographic plate, and the distribution of these spots follows a simple law derivable from the wave analysis. With neglect of small quantities proportional to higher powers of F , the final formula for the total energy, obtained by Epstein in this way, is given by 2 2 N 2 e4 m E= 2 h (n1 + n2 + n3 )2 3h2 (n1 + n2 + n3 )(n1 n2 ) F, 8 2 N em (78) where n1 , n2 , n3 are the positive entire numbers which occur as factors to Plancks constant on the right sides of the mentioned three conditions.
With reference to formula (80), it will be seen that the above results are in complete agreement with the experiments on the Zeeman effect of the hydrogen lines, as regards the frequencies and polarisations of the observed components. With reference to relation (49) we see therefore that, by fixing the stationary states of the perturbed system by means of the condition I = nh, (51) where n is an entire number, we obtain a relation between the additional energy E = of the system in the presence of the field and the frequency v of the secular perturbations, which is exactly of the same type as that which holds between the energy and frequency in the stationary states of a system of one degree of freedom, and which is expressed by (8) and (10).
With reference to the above considerations as regards the probability of transition between stationary states, it will be seen to follow from (87), that the presence of the homogeneous magnetic field will leave the components polarised parallel to the axis unaltered, but will cause every component, which in the absence of the field was polarised perpendicular to the axis, to split up in a symmetrical doublet the members of which will show circular polarisation in opposite directions, when viewed in the direction of the axis, and will be displaced from the position of the original component by an amount corresponding to a frequency difference equal to vH .
With reference to the general validity of relation (1), it will be seen that the assumption, that the weak components possess this degree of diffusion, implies the assumption, that the corresponding transitions (the probability of occurrence of which is very small compared with the probability of the transitions responsible for the strong components) will generally take place between two states of the perturbed atom, which do not both belong to the well defined ensemble of stationary states in which at any moment the great majority among a large number of atoms will be present. With reference to the homology of the elements the exceptional position of the elements enclosed by frames in fig.
With reference to the necessary stability for a small variation of the external conditions of the statistical distribution of the values of the energy among a large number of atoms in temperature equilibrium (see Note on page 82), it will be seen that the expression n(n + 1) may be taken as a measure for the relative value of the a-priori probability of the different stationary states of the undisturbed hydrogen atom, corresponding to different values of n. The problem of the determination of this a-priori probability has been discussed by K. Herzfeld (Ann.
With reference to the necessary stability of the stationary states of an atomic system, it seems justified, however, to conclude that any possible small discrepancy between the motion to be expected from a rigorous application of ordinary mechanics and that determined by a calculation of the secular perturbations, based on the equations (46), cannot cause a material change in the character of the stationary states as fixed by a consideration of the periodicity properties of these perturbations. With regard to a few passages containing comments on specific biological problems, the author had planned major revisions.
With regard to such an argument, however, it must be stressed that any two arrangements which admit accurate measurements of q2 and p2 will be mutually exclusive and that therefore predictions as regards q1 or p1 respectively, will per tain to phenomena which basically are of comple mentary character. With regard to such wider prospects, it would in particular seem that the free access to information, necessary for common security, should have far-reaching effects in reaoving obstacles barring mutual knowledge about spiritual and material aspects of life in the various countries, without which respect and goodwill between nations can hardly endure.
With strive to the hope that your meeting will contribute to this great goal, I want to express my warmest wishes that it will be an inspiring experience to you all. With such appli- cations of the formalism we are indeed not only faced with the in- adequacy of orbital pictures, but even with a renunciation of the distinction between the particles involved. With the aid of the correspondence principle it has been possible to confirm and to extend the above-mentioned results. With the aid of the figure I shall briefly illustrate the results for the case of sodium vapour. With the aid of the general frequency relation (1) we therefore obtain a number of components with nearly coincident frequencies instead of each hydrogen line given by the simple formula (2).
With the aid of the information concerning the binding of electrons by the nucleus obtained from the theory of the hydrogen spectrum I attempted in the same paper in which this theory was set forth to sketch in broad outlines a picture of the structure of the nucleus atom. With the aid of this general correspondence I shall try in the remainder of this lecture to show how it is possible to present the theory of series spectra and the effects produced by external fields of force upon these spectra in a form which may be considered as the natural generalization of the foregoing considerations. With the approximation mentioned we get therefore Dk = , Dt k Dk = , Dt k (k = 2, .
With the approximation mentioned, we get therefore for the total energy in the stationary states of the atom 8 4 N 4 e8 m 1 , (71) E = En0 h4 c2 n3 n where En0 is the energy in the stationary states of the periodic system just mentioned, and where the last term is obtained by introducing in (70) the value of 2 given by (64) and the value of n given by (41), neglecting the small correction due to the finite mass of the nucleus. With the approximation to which they have been so far completed the calculations point to the possibility of an agreement with the experimental results.
With the binding of the 4th, 5th and 6th electrons in 21 orbits, the spatial symmetry of the regular configuration of the orbits must be regarded as steadily increasing, until with the binding of the 6th electron the orbits of the four last bound electrons may be expected to form an exceptionally symmetrical configuration in which the normals to the planes of the orbits occupy positions relative to one another nearly the same as the lines from the centre to the vertices of a regular tetrahedron.
With the help of the rapidly increasing experimental evidence about the structure of complicated optical spectra, as well as the methodical search for finer regularities in the high-frequency spectra by Siegbahn and his collaborators, the classification of the binding states in atoms 48 ATOMIC PHYSICS AND HUMAN KNOWLEDGE containing several electrons continually advanced. With the intention of throwing more light on the specific nuclear forces, Rutherford and Chadwick, in the first years in Cambridge, performed thorough investigations of anomalous scatter- ing of a-rays in close nuclear collisions.
With the observation of the latter series of lines, however, the basis of the analogy between the hypothetical hydrogen spectrum and the other spectra disappeared, and thereby also the foundation upon which Rydberg had founded his conclusions; on the contrary it is seen, that the occurrence of the lines was exactly what was to be expected on our view. With these remarks it is in no way meant to imply that, in atomic physics, we possess a clue to the explanation of life, but only that we have gained an insight into the circumstances under which organic life displays itself. With these simplifications the electron will describe a closed elliptical orbit with the nucleus at one of the foci.
With this approximation the first term is equal to the mean value of the second taken over a period , and we have consequently Z E dt = 0. With this approximation we get consequently by a calculation, analogous to that given in the Note referred to, that the angle variables w, w1 , . With this approximation we get therefore from (48), putting t = , 1 1 + = Z dt = , 0 which shows that the change in the total energy of the system, due to the slow and uniform establishment of the external field, is just equal to the value of the function , and consequently equal to the mean value of the potential of the external forces taken over an approximate period of the perturbed motion. With this end in view, we naturally turn to the spectrum of hydrogen.
With this in mind let us first examine the experiments on temperature radiation. With this terminology, the observational problem in atomic physics is free of any special intricacy, since in actual experiments all evidence pertains to observa tions obtained under reproducible conditions and is expressed by unambiguous statements referring to the registration of the point at which an atomic particle arrives on a photographic plate or to a corresponding record of some other amplification device.
With unfailing intuition Einstein thus was led step by step to the conclusion that any radiation process involves the emission or absorption of individual light quanta or "photons" with energy and momentum E = hf and P = hs (1) respectively, where h is Planck's constant, while f and s are the number of vibrations per unit time and the number of waves per unit length, respectively. With very close approximation the points lie on straight lines, and the fact that they do so is conditioned not only by our taking account of known elements, but also by our leaving an open place between molybdenum (42) and ruthenium (44), just as in Mendeleev's original scheme of the natural system of the elements.
Within a year such problems were, however, brought in a new light by Louis de Broglie's pertinent comparison of particle motion and wave propagation, which was soon to find striking confirmation in the experiments by Davisson and Germer and George Thomson on the diffraction of electrons in crystals. Within the last years, world-wide political devel- opments have increased the tension between nations July 7, 1950 and at the same time the perspectives that great countries may compete about the possession of means of annihilating populations of large areas and even making parts of the earth temporarily uninhabitable have caused widespread confusion and alarm.
Within the scope of classical physics, all characteristic properties of a given object can in principle be ascertained by a single experimental arrangement, although in practice various arrangements are often con- venient for the study of different aspects of the phenomena. Without a detailed theory of the mechanism of transition between the stationary states we cannot, of course, in general obtain an exact determination of the probability of spontaneous transition between two such states, unless the ns are large numbers. Without attempting to account in detail for any of the electrical effects observed, we shall see that a simple interpretation can be given of the general way in which the magnitude of the effect varies from series to series.
Without attempting to develop a more detailed picture of atomic structure, Smekal has already discussed the possibility of accounting for the multiplicity of levels. Without entering further into the problem of the causes of the division of the electrons into groups, or the reasons for the different stability of the various electronic configurations, he points out in connection with ideas which had already played a part in Thomsons theory, how the periodic system affords evidence of a periodic appearance of especially stable configurations of electrons.
Without entering into has been followed with so great success ever since metaphysical speculations, I may perhaps add that the pioneer work of Finsen, and which has as its any analysis of the very concept of an explanation distinguishing mark the most intimate combination would, naturally, begin and end with a renunciaof the study of the medical effects of light treattion as to explaining our own conscious activity. Without entering on any more or less naive picture of the localization and integration of the activity of the brain tempting to compare such adjustment to irreversible it is processes by which stability in the novel situation is restored.
Without entering upon a closer examination of the numerical values of these amplitudes, it will directly be seen that the amplitudes of the harmonic rotations, which have the same direction as the revolution of the electron, in general, are considerably larger than the amplitudes of the rotations in the opposite direction, and we shall accordingly expect that the probability of spontaneous transition will in general be much larger for transitions, in which the angular momentum decreases, than for transitions in which it increases. Without free access to all information of impor- tance for the interrelations between nations, a real improvement of world affairs seemed hardly inragi- nable.
Without further reference to the quantum theory, Eadenburg had on a previous occasion already suggested the idea of relating the chemical and magnetic properties of these elements with the development of an inner electron group in the atom. Without going into details I may say, that even though our results in several respects differ materially from those of Lande (compare Essay II, page 85), we agree with his general conclusions concerning the origin of the orthohelium and parhelium spectra.
Without impedillg the inlportance of the project for immediate military objectives, an initiative, aiming at forestalling a fateful competition about the formidable weapon, should serve to uproot any cause of distrust be- tween the powers on whose harmonious coIIaboration the fate of coming generations depend. Without in any way interfering with the photon between its escape and its later interaction with other suitable measuring instruments, we are, thus, able to make accurate predictions pertaining either to the moment of its arrival or to the amount of energy liberated by its absorption. Wn (M + m) papers cited in the introduction.
Wood first showed that sodium vapour subjected to light corresponding to the first line of the principal seriesthe familiar yellow lineacquires the ability of again emitting a radiation consisting only of the light of this line. Work on the construction of the apparatus was started by Cockcroft at the end of 1928 and was continued during the following year with the collaboration of Walton. Work was also needed on the series of products between thorium and thorium-X and the place of the actinium family. Writing Ik0 Ik = Ik , we get therefore from the latter equation Z s X E dt = Nk Ik . XI As a true pioneer, Rutherford never relied merely on intuition, however far it carried him, but was always on the look-out for new sources of knowledge which could possibly lead to unexpected pro- gress.
XII "When we look back on Rutherford's life we perceive it, of course, against the unique background of his epoch-making scientific achievements, but our memories will always remain irradiated by the enchantment of his personality. XII When we look back on Rutherford's life we perceive it, of course, against the unique background of his epoch-making scientific achieve- ments, but our memories will always remain irradiated by the en- chantment of his personality. XIX, p. 116 (1917)) about the stationary states of systems which allow of what may be called partial separation of variables.
XIX, p. 441 and p. 465 (1918)) which has just been published, a similar consideration of conservation of angular momentum has been used to draw conclusions, as regards the possibility of transitions between the stationary states of a conditionally periodic system possessing an axis of symmetry, and as regards the character of the polarisation of the radiation accompanying these transitions. XTithin any community it is only possible for the citizens to strive together for common welfare on a basis of public knowledge of the general conditions in the country. XV, p. 1259 (1913), where it was pointed out, for the first time, that the effect of an electric field on the hydrogen lines to be expected on the quantum theory was of the same order of magnitude as the effect observed by Stark.
XVII, p. 491 (1916) and P. Debye, Phys. XVII, p. 511 (1916)), this view, however, would not be reconcilable with Einsteins theory of temperature radiation (see Part I, page 8) which implies the general validity of relation (1); and, moreover, as will be shown in the following, the Zeeman effect of the hydrogen lines may actually be considered, not as involving a deviation from the combination principle, but rather as affording an instructive example of a systematic disappearance of certain possible combination lines, for which a simple explanation can be obtained from a consideration based on the general formal relation between the quantum theory of line spectra and the ordinary theory of radiation.
XXIX p. 332 (1915)), by a direct application of the condition I = nh to these periodic motions. XXIX p. 795 (1915) and XXXI p. 156 (1916)), but by him applied only to the simple Keplerian motion described by the electron in the hydrogen atom if the relativity modifications are neglected. Xray spectra and atomic structure. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3.
Yet on the basis of the classical electromagnetic theory, it is impossible to understand why substances in the form of vapour show absorption for certain lines in their emission spectrum and not for others. Yet such purely external analogies were, of course, only of little weight for the growing appreciation of the essential unity of the principles governing natural phenomena, as compared to the deep-rooted similarities between living organisms and technical machinery that were disclosed by the studies of anatomy and physiology, pursued so intensely at the time of the Renaissance especially here in Italy.
Yet the newly recognized possibility of inducing macroscopic effects by individual atomic process, which plays an essential part in the functioning of organisms-in any case for the sensitiveness of sense perceptions (Aiv)-has been an incentive to the taking up anew of the question of a possible "explanation" of life. Yet these considerations clearly showed that, for an explanation of the finer details of the phenomenon, the methods for a classification of stationary states of atomic systems were not sufficiently developed. Yet we shall often miss the assistance of our deceased colleagues and friends, like Kramers, Pauli, and Schrodinger, who all took part in the confer- ence in 1948, which was the last one I, so far, attended.
Yet, I am afraid that I had in this respect only little success in convincing my listeners, for whom the dissent among the physicists themselves was naturally a cause of scepticism as to the necessity of going so far in renouncing customary demands as regards the explanation of natural phenomena.
Yet, a certain difference in attitude and outlook remained, since, with his mastery for co-ordinating apparently contrasting experience without abandoning continuity and causality, Einstein was perhaps more reluctant to renounce such ideals than someone for whom renunciation in this respect appeared to be the only way open to proceed with the immediate task of co-ordinating the multifarious evidence regarding atomic phenomena, which accumulated from day to day in the exploration of this new field of knowledge. Yet, as is well known, the establishment of the differential equations connecting the rate of variation of electromagnetic intensities in space and time has made possible a description of electromagnetic phenomena in complete analogy to causal analysis in mechanics.
Yet, it is interesting to recall how much the search for medical herbs in woods and meadows has stimulated the development of syste- matic botany. Yet, no one confronted with the divergent cultural ti.aditions and social organization of the various countries could fail to be deeply impressed by the difficulties in finding a comrnon approach to many human problems. You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project GutenbergTM License when you share it without charge with others. You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of Project GutenbergTM works.
You have probably also perceived that difficulties would arise in interpreting this spectrum by means of the assumptions which have been employed. You have probably noticed that we have not mentioned at all the spectrum found in certain stars which according to the opinion then current was assigned to hydrogen, and together with the ordinary hydrogen spectrum was considered by Rydberg to form a connected system of lines completely analogous to the spectra of other elements. You know that we have a High Tension Laboratory where steady D.C. voltages can be readily obtained up to 600,000 volts or more.
You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing Project GutenbergTM electronic works provided that: You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from the use of Project GutenbergTM works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any word processing or hypertext form. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org . You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and research.
You must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of Project GutenbergTM works. You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he does not agree to the terms of the full Project GutenbergTM License. You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work. You simply picked your berth and took your departure.
You understand, of course, that I am by no means trying to give what might ordinarily be described as an explanation; nothing has been said here about how or why the radiation is emitted. You will have already guessed that what I have in view is a simple explanation of the occurrence of the family of rare earths at the beginning of the sixth period. You will perceive that the electromagnetic theory of light together with the electron theory suggests a method of solving this problem.
You will therefore understand that I shall not attempt to propose an explanation of the spectral laws; on the contrary I shall try to indicate a way in which it appears possible to bring the spectral laws into close connection with other properties of the elements, which appear to be equally inexplicable on the basis of the present state of the science. Your ideas as to the mode of origin of the spectrum of hydrogen are very ingenious and seem THE RUTHERFORD MEMORIAL LECTURE 1958 41 to work out well; but the mixture of Planck's ideas with the old mechanics make it very difficult to form a physical idea of what is the basis of it. Yours very sincerely, E. RUTHERFORD.
Zinc, which is always divalent, is the first element in which the groups of the electrons are so firmly bound that they cannot be removed by ordinary chemical processes. [See the accompanying article by Durga Prasad in this issue (see p.897) on the explanation of the periodic table with Bohr's atomic model. \) based on thefollowmg con51derat19n On one hand, the In using an optical instrument for determinations of "M co ordinates of a particle can be measured with any de- position, it is necessary to remember that the formation sired degree of accuracy by using, for example, an optical of the image always requires a convergent beam of light. ]Let us further assume that the electron after the interaction has taken place has settled devon in a stationary orbit around the nucleus.
_fn an2~ molecular system consisting of positive nuclei and electrons in which the nuclei are at rest relative to each otllev and the electrons move in circular orbits~ the angular momentum _h~ormat~on of ;]lolecules of the Eleme~ds. a constant which is different for the different series. a reaction in a bulk of uranium continued by new neutrons from fresh fissions and with this a practical technical utilization of the energy set free in fission, each pound of fissile material uranium-235 producing as much heat energy as 1000 tons of good coal. action a time interval long compared to the vibration period associated with the transition process, and con- 6. added during the proof .In Phys.
adjustment in children's play and equally seriousness and humour, conspicuous mature life, plays no small part. always implies gap in the knowledge of its are seen to permit only conclusions regarding the spatial propagation. an attempt was made on the basis of the present theory to explain the characteristic effect of an electric field on the hydrogen spectrum recently discovered by Stark. and X C cos 2 ( 1 + 2 )t + c , X y = C sin 2 ( 1 + 2 )t + c , x= (73) where 1 is the frequency of the radial motion and 2 is the mean frequency of revolution, and where the summation is to be extended over all positive and negative entire values of .
and a most instructive report was given by Gamow on the interpretation of y-ray spectra, based on his theory of spontaneous and induced a-ray and proton emission and their relation to the fine structure in a-ray spectra.Aspecial point, which was eagerly discussed, was the problem of continuous (3-ray spectra. and from which quantum mechanics more satisfactory theory can be developed. and the optical properties of material media are After all, the concept of observation is in so far completely governed by the wave theory super- arbitrary as it depends upon which objects are position principle. and, above al , the concepts of space and time The quantum theory is characterised by the lose their immediate sense.
appearance of so-called anomalous Zeeman effects present new puzzles which could only be overcome more than ten years later when the structure of the lines in series spectra was traced to an intrinsic complex electron spin. appreciated in and The complementary way in which words like contemplation used has especially to be taken into account when turning volition are of the freedom of will, discussed by philosophers to the problem if we cannot say whether we want to do some- through the ages. are K funcLions of 7 which approximate]y are equal to (T+al)~, K (~+~)v... K is a universal constant, equal to the factor outside the bracket in the formula (4) for the spectrum of hydrogen. aries such as photogra}}:hic plates, Wilson clouds, ete.
ary state the value of which depends upon the This is the reason why it is possible to draw previous history of the atom, would for the first conclusions concerning the properties of radiation moment seem to contradict the very idea of by using classical electrodynamics. as always, alert interest in any promising simplicity but warned with characteristic caution against overstressing the bearing of the atomic model and extrapolating from comparatively meagre experimental evidence. as an element evading customary Just bytreating the quantum of action explanation similar to the role of the velocity of light in relativity theory as amaximal speed of signals this formalism can be as a rational generalization of the conceptual framework of regarded classical physics.
as determining the highest possible accuracy in A similar remark applies to the collision between the definition of the energy and momentum of the two material particles, although the significance of individuals associated with the wave-field. as in the case of light, we have consequently in Let us denote a plane elementary wave by the question of the nature of matter, 80 far as we A 008 2n(vl 20, Yo, 20, +8), adhere to classical concepts, to face an inevitable where 4 and & are constants determining respect- dilemma, which has to be regarded as the very ively the amplitude and the phase. as much as 2190 to about 2600. as the harmonics of the first member (n0 = 3), although of course the frequencies of the former lines are by no means entire multipla of the frequency of the latter line.
as we have seen, based on a consideration of the inter- .Here the d1fference between classmal mechanics and the ferences taking place inside a group of such elementary quantumtheoretical treatment of the problem of inter ALF. as well as energy and momentum are utilized in a purely In the characteristic vibrations of SchrOdingers wave formal way.
associated with the concept of particles, and hence The two views of the nature of light are rather to may be characterised according to the classical be considered as different attempts at an inter- point of view by definite space-time co-ordinates, pretation of imental evidence in which the the period of vibration and wave-length refer to a limitation of the classical concepts is expressed in plane harmonic wave train of unlimited extent in complementary ways. atoms with the same atomic number or nuclear charge and thus having identical chemical properties yet varying in the number of units of atomic mass. ber and relative intensities of the components into which the hydrogen lines may be expected to split up as a consequence of the relativity modifications.
between neighbouring stationary states. bility for an asymptotical approach towards the problem Summarizing, it might be said that the concepts of of free particles. bility of defining these quantities in an unam- In fact to measure the position of one of the biguous way. but I would be happier if its volume could be cut down to a fair amount. by T = 2 0 Consider next some new periodic motion of the system formed by a small variation of the first motion, but which may need the presence of external forces in order to be a mechanically possible motion. by a differential operator by means of the relation Hence, our whole space-time view of physical phe- _.1h 3 p=\/12fl Sq, ...... (5) nomena, as well as me definition of energy mfmo- mentum, depends ultimately upon these abstractions.
by an application of (6) to the expressions for the energy and frequency of the system. by impact of cathode particles'*. by the effect of electrical discharge in a vacumn tube will accordingly correspond to the binding of an electron by a positive nucleus considered on p. 5. can copy and distribute it in the United States without permission and without paying copyright royalties. can he properly attached, we see that the argu- The decisive point as regards time measure- mentation of the mentioned authors does not ments in quantum theory is now completely Jjustify their conclusion that quantum-mechanical analogous to the argument concerning measure- description is essentially incomplete.
causal descriptiprr of its dynamical behaviour, while the Here the contrast with the ordinary way of description determination of its momentum always implies a gap in appears strikingly in the circumstance that spectral lines, the knowledge of its spatial propagation. central systems considered by Sommerfeld form a special case of a more general class of systems for which conditions of the same type as (15) may be applied. cept of observation involving the quantum postulate This View is already clearly brought outiy the much- with its inherent irrationality is brought in.
chR 2 me (8) It is seen that for small values of n, we obtain values for the major axis of the orbit of the electron which are of the same order of magnitude as the values of the diameters of the atoms calculated from the kinetic theory of gases. classical mode of description. co-ordinates of a particle is accompanied not only by a This is primarily due to the circumstance that in these finite change in the dynamical variables, but also the questions no closer description of the space-time be fixation of its position means a complete rupture in the haviour of the processes is required. co-ordinates of the particle are sufficiently small.
concerned with stationary states is, as we have seen, due This condition means, as a simple calculation shows, that to the special nature of such problems. connexion with ideas of Heisenberg and Hund, Indeed, we find ourselves here on the very path has succeeded recently in a very interesting way taken by Einstein of adapting our modes of percep- in showing how the explanation of the specific tion borrowed from the sensations to the gmduxfi)y heat of %ydrogen, hitherto beset with diffi- deepening knowledge of the laws of Nature. consequence not open to observation. consideration of Thomas so fundamental for the ii_}_t_er- ' pretation of experimental results.
cording to relation (2), the associated spacetime regions In the language of the relativity theory, the content of can be given the same size for both individuals in inter- j the relations (2) may be summarized in the statement action. corresponding to the normal state of the atom, we get; a value of the same order of magnitude as the values for the diameters of atoms calculated on the kinetic theory of gases. coupling between the particles in the atom. deed, a discontinuous change of energy and mo- Tf m represents the mass of the particle, then the mentum during observation could not prevent us uncertainty attached to the value of the momentum from ascribing accurate values to the space-time after observation is cmA/2l. degree with first-class honours in both mathematics and physics.
demanded by the quantum postulate. description appears strikingly in the circumstance Strictly speaking, the idea of observation belongs that spectral lines, which on the classical view to the causal space-time way of description. description is confronted in the quantum theory, At the same time, the possibility of identifying and which have been the subject of repeated the velocity of the pa.rtic{z with the group-velocity discussions, are now placed into the foreground by indicates the field of application of space-time the recent development of the symbolic methods. destined for the peoples of the cities. developed by Schrodi has, as we shall see, In fact, matrices, which represent canonicall proved of t help.
dictions regarding the behavior of the second It is true that we have freely made use of such particle. direction, the finite value of the Just as in the case of the determination of aperture will prevent an exact knowledge of the position, the time of the process of observation recoil accompanying the scattering.
discovery of the quantum of action has already An instructive illustration of the refinement to | forced us, On one hand, the wonderful features which this organisation is developed has been which are constantly revealed in physiological obtained through the study of the construction investigations and differ so strikingly from what and function of the eye, for which the simplicity is known of inorganic matter, have led many of the phenomena of light has again been most biologists to doubt that a real understanding of helpful. discussed question of the nature of light and the ultimate This Situation has far-reaching consequences.
dividual character of radiation demanded by the quantum Schrodinger, it is possible, in the limit mentioned, by theory and to build up a dispersion theory, in which the superposition of proper vibrations to construct wave- finite width of the spectral lines is takeninto consideration. dynamics, in which the individual transition pro- According to the quantum theory, just the im- cesses were each associated with a harmonic in possibility of neglecting the interaction with the the motion of the atomic };la.rticles to be expected agency of measurement means that every observa- according to ordinary mechanics.
e Moreover, the difficulty of satisfying the relativity re- quantum theory we meet this difficulty at once in thp quirement in quantum theory appears in a particularly question of the inevitability of the feature of irrationality striking light in connection with the problem of the mag- characterizing the quantum postulate. e We see that these values are of the same order of magni- tude as the linear dimensions of the atoms, the optical frequencies, and the ionization-potentials. effectone will employ a parallel wave-train. electric field of any given intensity, there does not exist a set of coordinates for which a separation of variables can be obtained.
elementary waves in the group is given in the most favourable case by the condition The fundamental contrast between the quantum of action and the classical concepts is immediately AtAy = Az, =AyAoy =AzA0; =1, apparent from the simple formula which form the where At, Az, Ay, Az denote the extension of the common foundation of the theory of light quanta wave-field in time and in the directions of space and of the wave theory of material particles. empirical formula, Kossel showed that the first relation was closely satisfied for the elements from calcium to zinc.
enter upon his results it will be advantageous to igorously speaking, a limited wave-field can show how the complementary nature of the descrip- only be obtainese):y the superposition of a manifold tion appearing in this uncertainty is unavoidable of elementary waves corresponding to all values already in an analysis of the most elementary of v and vy, 0y,;, But the order of magnitude of concepts employed in interpreting experience. equation we have, as mentioned, an adequate representa- The symbolical character of Schrodingers method ap- tion of the stationary states of an atom allowing an 1- pears not 0&7 from the circumstance that its simplipity, ambiguous definition of the energy of the system by similarly to that of the matrix theor_y, depends essentially WW1).
experimental arrangement discussed above, and In an arrangement suited for measurements of depends in the last resort on the claim of a purely the momentum of the first diaphragm, it is fur- classical account of the measuring apparatus, ther clear that even if we have measured this which implies the necessity of allowing a latitude momentum before the passage of the particle corresponding to the quantum-mechanical uncer- through the slit, we are after this passage still tainty relations in our description of their be- left with a free choice whether we wish to know havior. f. with the total energy by relation (1), we realise Phys., 84, 142; 1925). field, it is necessary to consider more closely the variation of the orbit during the perturbations.
fields in space and time can always be regarded as Nevertheless, recent experience, above all the resulting from the interference of a group of ele- discovery of the selective reflection of electrons mentary harmonic waves. for the study of proper quantum phenomena not concerned with a discrimination between differenk merely to do with an ignorance of the value of experimental procedures which allow of the unam- certain physical quantities, but with the impossi- biguous use of complementary classical concepts.
fulness of the exchange of experiences and ideas be- tween scientists from all parts of the world was a great source of encouragement to every participant and strengthened the hope that an ever closer contact between nations would enable them to work together on the progress of civilization in all its aspects. fundamentally atomistic features in the functions However, analogies from chemical experience of living organisms is by no means sufficient, howwill not, of course, any more than the ancient ever, for a comprehensive explanation of biological comparison of life with fire, give a better explanation phenomena. gent, concerning this subject. gives a set of values for E which differ slightly from each other and from Wn .
group of harmonic vibrations, distributed over a finite To consider an atom as a closed system, as we have frequency interval. guaranteeing common security without excluding anyone from participatian in the promahg utilization of the new sources of material prosperity.. All such opportunities may, however, be forfeited if an initiative is not taken while the matter can be raised in July 7,1950 a spirit of friendly advice. h (26) In general, this spectrum will be entirely different from the spectrum to be expected on the ordinary theory of electrodynamics from the motion of the system.
h h (13) Now in a stationary state of a periodic system the displacement of the particles in any given direction may always be expressed by means of a Fourier-series as a sum of harDownloaded from https://www.holybooks.com 25 monic vibrations: = X C cos 2( t + c ), (14) where the Cs and cs are constants and the summation is to be extended over all positive entire values of . h h (5) During the emission of the radiation the system may be regarded as passing from one state to another; in order to introduce a name for these states, we shall call them stationary states, simply indicating thereby that they form some kind of waiting places between which occurs the emission of the energy corresponding to the various spectral lines.
h3 (6) This agrees with the empirical value of the constant for the spectrum of hydrogen within the limit of accuracy with which the various quantities can be determined. h3 (M + m) h3 (1 + m/M ) (40) As shown in previous papers, this relation is actually found to be fulfilled within the limit of experimental errors if we put N = 1 and for e, m, and h introduce the values deduced from measurements on other phenomena; a result which may be considered as affording a strong support for the validity of the general principles discussed in Part I, as well as for the reality of the atomic model under consideration. h3 The observed value for the factor outside the bracket in the formula (4) is 3"290.1015.
has stressed the peculiar reciprocal uncertainty which Th: problem of the nature of the constituents of affects all measurements of atomic quantities. have reached the limit imposed by the atomic At first sight, the essentially statistical character character of the light effects. have to fulfil the exchange rule ' As is known, the new development was commenced in h 1 277. pq qp=V ......(3) a fundamental paper by Heisenberg, where he succeeded in emancipating himself completely from the classical Indeed, this exchange relation expresses strikingly the concept of motion by replacing from the very start the symbolical character of the matrix formulation of the 72 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 73 quantum theory. here briefly already the previous spring.
however,the time of reaction is im- not belonging to the system. i group corresponds in the beginning to the relations (2), This circumstance permits us to avoid the well-known it will in the course of time be subject to such changes paradoxes which are encountered in attempting to de-l that it becomes less and less suitable for representing an scribe the scattering of radiation by free electrical par- individual. ii After settling down in Copenhagen, I remained in close contact with Rutherford, to whom I regularly reported about the development of the work on general atomic problems, which I had started in Man- chester. ile en and momentum are of the ideas of space and time and of causality. illustration of the resonance mentioned.
implies that an immediate utilization of the concept all our knowled e concerning the internal properties of Of energy in connection with the classical idea of the whomCW potential energy of the system is excluded. in 1927, all distinction Notwithstanding the radical departure from deterministic pictorial description, with which we are here concerned, basic features of customary ideas of causality are upheld in the correspondence ap- proach by referring the competing individual processes to a simple superposition of wave functions defined within a common space-time extension. in Owing to the upsetting of international scientific collaboration by the First World War, the Solvay meetings were not resumed until the spring of 1921.
in When in March, 1913, I wrote to Rutherford, enclosing a draft of my first paper on the quantum theory of atomic constitution, I stressed the importance of settling the question of the origin of the Pickering linesand took the opportunity of asking whether experiments to that purpose could be performed in his laboratory, where from Schuster's days appropriate spectroscopic apparatus was available. in general greater than the velocity of light empha- The difficulties with which a causal space-time 8ises the symbolic character of these considerations.
in our days, Indeed, the rapid progress of science and technology which entails unique promises for the promotion of human welfare and at the same time imminent menaces to universal security, presents our whole civilization with a veritable challenge. in the absence of the magnetic field, it is not possible, however, from a consideration of the mechanical effect produced on the motion of the electron by a slow and uniform establishment of the magnetic field, to fix the stationary states of the perturbed atom completely, but in order to fix these states we must consider more closely the relation between the additional energy of the system due to the presence of the magnetic field and the character of the secular perturbations produced by this field on the orbit of the electron.
in the corresponding stationary state. in the following passage: From our point of new we now see that the wording of the above-mentioned criterion of physical reality proposed by Einstein, Podolsky, and Rosen contains an ambiguity as regards the meaning of the expression ' without in any way disturbing a system.' in the same manner as in the fundamental experiIt will carry us too far from our subject to ments of atomic physics. in this case the electron will describe stationary elliptical orbits. in which are the possible values of the space co- the present case the agreement between the possi- ordinates. individuality characterising the quantum theory.
ing the glrinaiples underlying the description of On one hand, the definition of the state of atomic phenomena, which I hope may help to a. physical system, as ordinarily understood, harmonise the different views, apparently so diver- claims the elimination of all external disturbances. ing this problem with the five-dimensional unified 1928 Nature Publishing Group 590 Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 representation of electromagnetism and gravita- behaviour of the electric elementary particles and tion propoged by Kaluza. inger's formulation of the interaction problem, In support of this view, Schrodinger, in a recent just as the formulation offered by matrix theory, paper (4nn.
instrument, provided radiation of sufliciently short wave- Denoting by A the wave-length of the radiation used, length is used for illumination. investigation, in the sense that the quantummechanical uncertainty relations regarding its position and momentum must be taken explicitly into account. ions of entire numbers suggests an origin of the lines in the spectra in question similar to the one we have assumed for hydrogen; i. e. that the lines correspond to a radiation emitted during the passing of the system between two different stationary s~ates. is a series of functions of n, which may be written approximately R , Fr (n) = (n + r )2 where R is Rydbergs universal constant and r is a constant which is different for the different functions.
is called for It is in this situation that the notion of complementarity frame wide to embrace the account of fundamental to provide a enough regularities of nature which cannot be comprehended within a single picture. is suited to give an impression of the general trend of Indeed, our usual description of physical phenomena is the development of the theory from its very beginning based entirely on the idea that the phenomena concerned and which I hope will be helpful in order to harmonize may be observed without disturbing them appreciably. is the external electric force, and the two signs correspond to orbits in which the direction of the major-axis from the nucleus is the same or opposite to that of the electric force respectively.
it follows that in the description of the state of the com- 2 Cf. it is a general consequence of the superposition F. it was shown that the assumption E led to an estimate of the energy necessary to remove an electron from the innermost ring of an atom which was in approximate agreement with Whiddingtons measurements of the minimum kinetic energy of cathode rays required to produce the characteristic Rontgen radiation of the type.
it will obviously make no difference 1n the Ehscussion Of A closer investigation shows, however, that such a the accuracy of measurements of position and mo- measurement is impossible, if at the same time one wants mentum of a particle if collisions with other material to know the position of the microscope with sufficient particles are considered instead of scattering of radiation.
j however, the general character of this relation makes it While the physical content of the light-quan um 's, 62 _THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 63 wholly connected with the conservation theorems for of the radiation is so large that the effect of recoil can be energy and momentum, in the case of the electrical par- neglected, but then the determination of the space co- ticles the electric charge has to be taken into account in ordinates of the particle becomes correspondingly less this connection. ledge of the component of momentum parallel to The fact that the recoil then gets larger does the focal plane after the observation would be not, as we have seen, affect the accuracy of affected by an uncertainty amounting to 2h/A.
like to emphasise that the considerations referred to here differ entirely from all attempts at viewing In conclusion, I wish to emphasise that in none new possibilities for a direct spiritual influence on of my remarks have I intended to express any material phenomena in the limitation set for the kind of scepticism as to the future development causal mode of description in the analysis of of physical and biological sciences. like to make the following general remarks regard- This situation has far-reaching consequences.
limit mentioned, where the relative difference Indeed, it follows from the above considerations between adjacent stationary states may be neg- that the measurement of the positional co- lected, such a fragmentary application of the ordinates of a particle is accompanied not only by classical theories could only in certain cases lead a finite change in the dy*namica%)variables, but also to a strictly quantitative description of the pheno- the fixation of its position means a complete rupture mena.
limit mentioned, where the relative difference between This ingenious attack on the dynamical problem of adjacent stationary states may be neglected, such a frag- atomic theory proved itself from the beginning to be an mentary application of the classical theories could only exceedingly powerful and fertile method for interpreting in certain cases lead to a strictly quantitative description quantitatively the experimental results. lized by Planck's quantum of tion and definition respectively. macroscopic t}}::]:-enomem we may say, in a certain The aim of regarding the quantum theory as a sense, that they are created by repeated observa- rational generalisation of the classical theories led tions.
man effect, and will therefore be distinctly separated from the strong components into which each of the components of the normal Zeeman effect is split up in the presence of the small electric field. many applications is connected with the circumstance This inobservability of the phase, well known from that the coupling between the atom and the radiation the theory of optical instruments, is brought out in a field, which is to be expected on classical electro- \ 84 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY Q5 dynamics, is in general very small compared to the In View of the asymptotic connection of atomic pro- coupling between the particles in the atom.
matical developments and diagrams of experimental 702 NILS BOHR The dependence on the reference system, in reference, which in quantum theory confronts us relativity theory, of all readings of scales and with the situation characterized by the notion of clocks may even be compared with the essentially complementarity. matrices permits the representation of such averages of a mechanical quantity, in the calculation of which any 5. may largely be disregarded, and the question of Ft is true that this point of view at first did not, as observation in the proper sense therefore placed in regards quantitative results, lead beyond the earlier the background. meaning of the expression without in any way In fact, in such phenomena we have no longer disturbing a system.
mechanical uncertainty relations regarding its By another experimental arrangement, where position and momentum must be taken explicitly the first diaphragm is not rigidly connected with into account. ment with the investigation of its physical aspects. mental roles in plant assimilation and animal The recognition of the essential importance of Tespiration. mercury; for T=33 the diameter is equal to 1"2.10 -b cm., corresponding to the mean distance of the molecules at a pressure of about 0"02 mm. methods of quantum theory, to the development In pursuing further the correspondence of the of which Sommerfeld has contributed so essentially. methods to be mentioned below. momentum .and the canonically conjugated Another application of the method of Schridinger, variable.
most A serious task is, however, to promote mutual different cultural back- understanding between nations with very grounds. mt hpwever, that in the interpretation of observations a ere no uestion of an immediate con- fundamental renuHCiation regar(fing the spacetime de- nection with our ordinary conceptions because thelgeo- scription is unavoidable. must be to account for such experience in a manner independent of individual subjective and therefore objective in the sense judgment that it can be unambiguously communicated in the common human language.
n (2) By examining earlier observations it was actually found that a line had been observed in the spectrum of certain stars which coincided closely with the first line in this series (corresponding to n = 2); from analogy with other spectra it was also to be expected that this would be the strongest line. n The negative sign is used because the energy of the atom is measured most simply by the work required to remove the electron to infinite distance from the nucleus, and we shall assume that the numerical value of the expression on the righthand side of formula (3) is just equal to this work.
n h (M + m) 2 N e M m Wn = (41) Now for a mechanical system as that under consideration, for which every motion is periodic independent of the initial conditions, we have that the value of the total energy will be completely determined by the value of the quantity I, defined by equation (5) in Part I.
n2 (38) Moreover, since (35) can be written in the form = (n0 n00 )K n0 + n00 , n02 n002 it is seen to be a necessary condition that the frequency of revolution for large values of n is asymptotically given by n 2K , n3 (39) if we wish that the frequency of the radiation emitted during a transition between two stationary states, for which the numbers n0 and n00 are large compared with their difference n0 n00 , shall tend to coincide with one of the frequencies of the spectrum which on ordinary electrodynamics would be emitted from the system in these states. n2 (7) The negative sign has been chosen because the energy of the atom will be most simply characterized by the work W required to remove the electron completely from the atom.
n2 (n + 1)2 If n is very large this expression is approximately equal to = 2Rc/n3 . narrow compared with their separation, and My main purpose in repeating these simple, through each of which one particle with given and in substance well-known considerations, is initial momentum passes independently of the to emphasize that in the phenomena concerned other. natural periods of the atom, which again means that the We meet here with a complementarity of the possi- uncertainty in tlfe knowledge Of the energy transferred bilities of definition quite analogous t9 that which we in the process is large compared to the energy differences have considered earlierin connection with the properties between neighbouring stationary states.
nearly the same as in the above case of the binding of an electron by a hydrogen nucleus. ob der liebe Gott wrfelt"), to which I replied by pointing at the great caution, already called for by ancient thinkers, in ascribing attributes to Providence in every-day language. objects of measurements and all instruments defining the space-time system of arrangements, which had to be left out of this article, where the main stress is laid on the dialectic aspect of the question at issue.
objects which can be communicated A detailed account on complementary lines of a new wide domain of the gradual establishment of a mathe- experience has been possible by matical formalism, known as quantum mechanics, in which the elementary physical quantities are replaced by symbolic operators the quantum of action and reflecting subject to an algorism, involving the non-commutativity of the corresponding measuring operations. obtained by combinations of the corresponding spectral terms. obtained mutually exclusive be prepared that evidence, by different, exhibit contrast and experimental arrangements, may unprecedented even at first sight appear contradictory.
obtaining a statistical interpretation of the wave The symbolical character of Schrodinger's functions, allowing a calculation of the probability method appears not only from the ciroumstance of the individual transition processes required by that its simplicity, similarly to that of the matrix the quantum postulate. occupied in perfecting the machinery, the insulation A further complication arises from the fact that and the design of cold stores, in wagons or in ships. of Feb. 1, E. Gehrcke has attempted to represent the theory of the hydrogen spectrum in a way somewhat different from that in my former paper.
of Feb. 15, K. Herzfeld has discussed in detail the different possibilities of the effect of a magnetic field which might be expected on the theory of the hydrogen spectrum proposed by the writer. of a microscope is given by the well-known expres- The uncertainty in the position after observation sion A/2c.
of irrationality characterising the quantum pos- The insufficiency of the methods hitherto de- tulate, I hope, however, that the idea of com- veloped as concerns the problem of the elementary Plementarity is suited to characterise the situation, particles appears in the questions just mentioned which bears a deep-going analogy to the general from the fact that they do not allow of an un- difficulty in the formation of human ideas, inherent ambiguous explanation of the difference in the in the distinction between subject and object. of light and free material particles.
of momentum to the system consisting of the The experimental arrangements hitherto dis- diaphragm and the two particles and therefore cussed present a special simplicity on account of have lost our only basis for an unambiguous the secondary role which the idea of time plays application of the idea of momentum in pre- in the description of the phenomena in question. of sets of coordinates, the total energy will be the same for all motions corresponding to the same values of the Is, independent of the special set of coordinates used to calculate these quantities. of the wave theory superposition principle in accordance with the original ideas of L. de Broglie.
of their argumentation, however, does not seem Since, moreover, it is a well-known feature of the to me adequately to meet the actual situation present formalism of quantum mechanics that with which we are faced in atomic physics. of well-distributed rainfall and nearly 2500 h. of sunshine per annum. offer a simple interpretation of several characteristic features of the phenomenon. often been called a caleutus with directly ob- Already in his first considerations concerning servable quantities.
on the Actually, a few months before the conference my first paper quantum theory of atomic constitution had been published, in which initial steps had been taken to use the Rutherford atomic model for the explanation of specific properties of the elements, depending on the binding of the electrons surrounding the nucleus. on the hydrogen spectrum, discovered by Stark, has been given by Epstein and Schwarzschild on the basis of the general theory of conditionally periodic systems which allow of separation of variables.
on the other hand, can be determined with any This circumstance permits us to avoid the desired degree of accuracy by measuring, for well-known paradoxes which are encountered in example, the Doppler effect of the scattered radia- attempting to describe the scattering of radia- tion, provided the wave-length of the radiation tion by free electrical particles as well as the is so large that the effect of recoil can be neglected, collision of two such particles. on this view represents a symbolic transcription and the correspondence requirement regarding the tran- of the problem of motion of classical mechanics adaptgd sition process between two stationary states formulated in to the requirements of quantum theory and only to be matrix mechanics.
only a suitable idealisation which in a more rigorous It may also be mentioned thatan instructive analysis discussion must always be replaced by a group of Schrodingers treatment of the radiation pheno- of harmonic vibrations, distributed over a finite mena from the point of view of the correspondence frequency interval.
only with a single stationary state, as time averages As is known, the new development was com- of the quantity to be represented, the general menced in a fundamental paper by Heisenberg, transformation theory of matrices permits the where he succeeded in emancipating himself com- representation of such averages of a mechanical pletely from the classical concept of motion by quantity, in the calculation of which any set of replacing from the very start the ordinary kine- variables characterising the state * of the system matical and mechanical quantities by symbols, have given values, while the canonically conjugated which refer directly to the individual processes variables are allowed to take all possible values.
oppoh; nities still remain and that all hopes and all efforts must be centered on their realization. orbit remains purely periodic in the external field it was possible, by arguments of the same type as those applied to the stationary states of the undisturbed hydrogen atom, to deduce the order of magnitude of the Starkeffect, and especially to explain its rapid rise from line to line within the hydrogen spectral series.
ordinate to the reaction a time interval long This condition means, as a simple calculation shows, compared to the vibration period associated with that the product of the time of passage of the the transition process, and connected with the atom through the field, and the uncertainty due energy difference between the stationary states to the finite width of the beam of its energy in the according to relation (1).
out most strikingly the complementary character In tracing observations back to our sensations, of the description of atomic phenomena which once more regard has to be taken to the quantum appears as an inevitable consequence of the contrast postulate in connexion with the perception of the between the quantum postulate and the distine- agency of observation, be it through its direct tion between object and agency of measurement, action upon the eye or by means of suitable auxili- inherent in our very idea of observation.
p. 10, we are therefore led to expect that the hydrogen spectrum in an electric field will contain two components polarized parallel to the field and of a frequency given by Considering the difficulties of accurate measurement of the quantities involved, it will be seen that the agreement with regard to the variation of the frequency differences from line to line is very good. p. 14 ), which corresponds to the analogy between the considerations of the former section and the theory of Lorentz. p. 1427 (1910)) has shown that it is possible to deduce Plancks formula of radiation without using any assumption about the vibrators, if it be supposed that energy can be transferred between them and the radiation, only in finite quanta .
p. 255, 1915), Nicholson has concluded that this consequence of the theory is inconsistent with the measurements of the ordinary helium spectrum. p. 259) finds in this way for the value of the a-priori probability in question (n + 1)2 1. p. 5 (1912)) has deduced the necessity of assuming that the transference of energy takes place in quanta in order to explain the experimental laws of black radiation. p. 931 (1907)), although the structure of these atoms, proposed in my former paper, was of a type which on Langevins theory should show paramagnetism.
particles .is unknown, offers the possibility of a In view of tl]lle a,slympfitic lconn:;ion of a,tor;ic particularly simple illustration of the above con- properties with classical electrodynamics, de- siderations regarding the consistent utilisation of manded by the correspondence principle, the re- the concept of stationary states.
particles can mean nothing else than to establish The last remarks apply equally well to the a correlation between its behavior and some special problem treated by Einstein, Podolsky and Rosen, which has been referred to above, * As will be seen, this description, apart from a trivial and which does not actually involve any greater normalizing factor, corresponds exactly to the transforma- tion of variables described in the preceding footnote if intricacies than the simple examples discussed (9121), (g2p2) represent the positional coordinates and com- ponents of momenta of the two particles and if 9= x/4.
particular A point was the question, as to what extent the wave mechanics indicated from ordinary physical descrip- possibilities of a less radical departure tion than hitherto envisaged in all attempts at solving the paradoxes to which the discovery of the quantum of action had from the begin- ning given rise. phenomena on the one hand and the unclassical In fact, notwithstanding all characteristic differ- features of intrinsic stability of atoms, disclosed ences, the situations we are concerned with in by the study of energy transfers in atomic reac- these generalizations of classical theory present tions on the other hand. physical sense can neither be ascribed to the Especially the interference phenomena in vacuo phenomena nor to the agencies of observation.
pictures in the quantum theory. plished by substituting for the Fourier development Of The aim of regarding the quantum theory as a rational a classical mechanical quantity 3 matrix scheme, the ele- generalization of the classical theories led to the formula- ments of which symbolize purely harmonic vibrations tion of the so-called correspondence principle.
point in biology, in a similar way as the quantum It is due to this situation, in fact, that the concept of action, which appears as an irrational element of purpose, which is foreign to mechanical analysis, from the point of view of classical mechanical finds a certain field of application in problems physics, taken together with the existenco of the where regard must be taken of the nature of elementary particles, forms the foundation of life. position after observation hence is 2hl/mcx\.
possible to bri e promiging attempts made Quite apart from these unsolved deep-going by Darwin aggg Pau].ipin generalising the new problems, the classical electron theory up to the methods to cover this problem naturally, in resent time has been the guide for a further connexion with the relativity kinematical con- evelopment of the correspondence descr&fion in sideration of Thomas so fundamental for the connexion with the idea first advanced by Compton interpretation of experimental results. possible to give a very simple interpretation of the result oE the ca,loulagion on p. 5 by help of symbols taken from the ordinary mechanics.
powers of observation, but, owing to the very We must not forget, however, that the regulimits imposed by the properties of light, no larities peculiar to atomic processes, which are instrument is imaginable which is more efficient foreign to causal mechanics and find their place for its purpose than the eye. pretation of the wave functions, allowing a calculation of SchrOdinger, however, succeeded in developing a wave the probability of the individual transition processes re- theoretical method which has opened up new aspects, quired by the quantum postulate. prevent us from ascribing accurate values to the space time co-ordinates, as well as to the momentum-energy 3.
principle, on one hand, and of the conservation laws, on The veg nature of the qggntum theory thus forces us to the other, which were suggested by this apparent con- rggard the space-time co-ordination and the claim of tradiction, have been definitely disproved through direct causality, the union of which ghargCterizes the classical ex eriments. problems involve the maintenance therein of an That was made possible by mechanical refrigeraatmosphere with a constant content of oxygen, tion, and, at first, research and invention were carbon dioxide and water vapour.
qk c From this it follows that, with neglect of small quantities proportional to the square of the magnetic forces, the perturbations of the orbit of the electron in a hydrogen atom, which besides to a small external electric field of potential is exposed to a small external magnetic field of vector potential A, are given by a set of equations of the same form as (44) in 2, but where the s and s are replaced by a set of quantities 10 , 20 , 30 , 10 , 20 , 30 , which are related to the qs and p0 s and the time in the same way as the orbital constants 1 , 2 , 3 , 1 , 2 , 3 for the undisturbed atom are related to the qs and ps and the time through the equations (18), and e where is replaced by the expression e + (vA), considc ered as a function of the 0 s and 0 s and the time.
quantum laws with classical mechanics, the stress Sehrodinger, however, succeeded in developing a placed on the statistical character of the quantum wave - theoretical method which has opened up theoretical description, which is brought in by the | new aspects, and has proved to be of decisive 1928 Nature Publishing Group 586 Supplement to Nature, April 14, 1928 importance for the great progress in atomic interaction problem might be said to be com- physics during the last years. quantum-mechanical description, which is based The extent to which an unambiguous meaning on a coherent mathematical formalism covering can be attributed to such an expression as automatically any procedure of measurement like physical reality cannot of course be deduced that indicated.
quantum-theoretical description, we must, as been of fundamental importance. radiative transition processes formulated by Einstein Especially, the element characteristic of the quantum should be mentioned here. ready shown in the case of purely periodic systems by means of (8), the total energy is therefore also in cases of degeneration completely determined by the conditions (22). reference, which in quantum theory confronts us with the situation characterized by the notion of complementarity. relation between the energy and frequencies of the system in the stationary states.
represented a great progress by making possible Although it was just Kramers' treatment of dis- the operation with matrices, which are not arr: persion that gave important hints for the rational according to the stationary states, but where the development of correspondence considerations, it possible values of any set of variables may appear is only through the quantum theoretical methods as indices of the matrix elements. representing for every two stationary states for which the difference in energy varies in proportion to .
rest in some unknown position relative to the QUANTUM MECHANICS AND PHYSICAL REALITY 699 other parts of the apparatus, and the subsequent duced, at least in principle, by a simple experi- fixation of this position may therefore simply mental arrangement, comprising a rigid dia- consist in establishing a rigid connection between phragm with two parallel slits, which are very the diaphragm and the common support. s .4~ INTRODUCTION, a brief reference ismade to classical electron theory and, in particular, it is noted thatthe simple treatment of the electron asa A charged mass point is, in principle, limited to the description of phenomena in the anlaysis of which no linear dimensions occur comparablewith or smaller than the so-called classical electronradius r,, = e/mc2, .... .
seem to impose upon the analogy considered will With this dilemma before us, we must keep in depend essentially upon how we choose to use mind, however, that the conditions holding for such words as physics and mechanics. sense that the quantum postulate would lose its Summarising, it might be said that the concepts significance for high quantum numbers. sharp series, the lines of which are emitted by transitions from these states to the first state in the second row. should scarcely expect to find any features differing However, the limitation which this fact would from the properties of inorganic matter.
sibility of connecting this problem with the five-dimen- The principles underlying this attack have even made it sional unified representation of electromagnetism and possible to draw conclusions regarding the properties of gravitation proposed by Kaluza. signed to both Qi and Py, but that we may clearly assign 696 QUANTUM MECHANICS AND PHYSICAL REALITY 697 fact discloses only an essential inadequacy of the which in the quantum-mechanical formalism is a customary viewpoint of natural philosophy for a direct consequence of the commutation relation rational account of physical phenomena of the for any pair of conjugate variables. slit may be considered as the initial stage.
states vamshes asymptotically, meghgntmlmictnreLof The treatment of the radiation problem by the new electronic motion may be rationally utilized. stationary states of an atom meeting all requirements. storage life can also varies, under the same conditions, The properties of the material to be stored were, with the earlier history of the fruit. store thus sets up vicious circles, with shortening The modern period began about fifty years ago, of the storage life of the fruit. striking analogies which have often been noted. support of relation (2) as regards the reciprocal According to the ordinary kinematics, the effective uncertainties of energy and time values.
system from measurements performed entirely Since these variables will satisfy analogous commutation on other systems which previously have been in rules, in particular =#h/2r, =0, 1 A. Einstein, B. Podolsky and N. Rosen, Phys. systems containing more than one nucleus, we have further to take into consideration that if the greater part of the electrons are removed there is nothing to keep the nuclei together, and that we must assume that the molecules in such cases will split up into single atoms (comp. tails a renunciation as regards the space-time descrip- The difficulties with which a causal space-time descrip- tion.
technical mathematical character, to describe This postulate'implies a renunciation as regards the to you a certain general point of View which I believe causal space-time co-ordination of atomic processes. tem during continuous transformations of the external conditions (see Part I, page 14 and page 49), it seems necessary to conclude that no stationary state exists corresponding to n2 = 0. that according to the quantum thechy a general reci- A similar remark applies to the collision between two pocal relation exists between the maximum sharpness material particles, although the significance of the of definition of the space-time and energy-momentum quantum postulate for this phenomenon was disregarded vectors associatEl with the individuals.
that fission of the nucleus had taken place into two major fragments and it was deduced from Einstein's equation that tremendous energy was liberated. that im- tion of atomic phenomenWm- terpreting observations use has always to be madeof sents us with the task of developing a complementari_ty theoretical notions entailthat for every particular case theory the consistency of which can be judged only by it is a question of convenience at which point the con weighing the possibilities of definition and observation. that of Rutherford and Geiger in which the number of a-particles emitted per second from a gram of radium was directly counted for the first time and also the electrical charge carried by each a-particle.
that the assumption B needs modification in order to account for the effect of a magnetic field on spectral lines. that the components of the helium lines were not polarized relatively to the field like the hydrogen lines. that the deviation of the function from unity gives us an estimate for the deviation of the forces from the inverse square, and that on the theory we can only expect a Stark effect of the same order of magnitude as for the hydrogen lines for those series in which differs very little from unity. the apparently conflicting views taken by different This appears, for example, clearly in the theory of re- scientists. the assumption of discrete stationary states and fact, it follows from the experiences which have individual transition processes.
the atom, the propagation of which indefinitely When due regard is taken of the complementary approaches the classical picture of moving material feature required by the quantum postulate, it particles, if the quantum numbers are chosen seems, in fact, possible with the aid of the sym- sufficiently large. the charges and masses of the electrons and the positive nucleus; nor can it be determined solely by help of the latter quantities. the circumstance that from characteristic vibra- In the conception of stationary states we are, tions with only a few nodes no wave packages can as mentioned, concerned with a characteristic be built up which would even approximately application of the quantum postulate. the closed system under consideration.
the conditions in the celestial body in question; for on account of the enormous rarefaction of the matter there may be comparatively few collisions to disturb the stationary states and to cause a true emission of light corresponding to The transition between different stationary states ; on the other hand there will in the solar corona be intense illumination o f light of all frequencies which may excite the natural vibrations of the systems in the different stationary states. the electric telegraph and the dynamo, where science preceded or led the way to practice. the emission of an c-particle reduces the atomic number by 2 and alters the valency accordingly and emission of a ,8-particle increases the atomic number by 1.
the extent of the wave-fields in space and time can always Rigorously speaking, a limited wave-field can only be be regarded as resulting from the interference of a group obtained by the superposition of a manifold of ele of elementary harmonic waves. the general theory of relativity. the mean difference between these values for two 2. the mentioned support, however, we have by It is just this entirely new situation as regards this procedure cut ourselves off from any future the description of physical phenomena, that the possibility of applying the law of conservation notion of complementarity aims at characterizing. the momentum of the particle or its initial posi- The principal difference between the two ex- tion relative to the rest of the apparatus.
the number of effective units of positive electricity contained in its nucleus which was of course also equal to the number of orbital electrons whose positions determined the chemical proper- ties. the number of molecules per cubic centimetre in a gas. the observed difference in the wave-length of the two outer components was and for and respectively. the origin of the huge forces necessary to deflect the swift moving ac-particles and brushing aside the great objection to such a theory on classical ideas, i.e.
the potential of the first perturbing field by and that of the second by , we get then, by a calculation quite analogous to that given in Part I on page 17 for the alteration in the mean value of the energy of a periodic system during a slow establishment of a small external field, that the alteration in the mean value of 1 + taken over a time interval of the same order as , due to the establishment of the second external field, will be a small quantity of the same order of magnitude as ()2 ; but with the notation used above this means, in general, a small quantity of the same order as 2 .
the product of the time of passage of the atom through The application of the conception of stationary states the field, and the uncertainty due to the finite width of demands that in any observation, say by means_9_f_p_l; the beam of its energy in the field, is at least equal to lision or radiation reactions, permitting a distinction the quantum of action. the restricted possibilities of definition and of As shown by Schrodinger (Naturwiss., 14, 664 ; observation. the same value for the shortest chord through the focus. the slits of the second diaphragm within reach 698 NILS BOHR of the associated wave diffracted from the slit of investigation, in the sense that the quantum- the first diaphragm. the state in which the total energy is a minimum.
the supra-mechanical stability of the stationary states, In this theory also the SchrOdinger wave equation has according to which the atom, before as well as after an obtained an instructive application. the symbolical character of the matrix formulation of the quantum theory. the two electrons move in an inner ring and the other electron in an outer orbit; for such a configuration we should expect that the mode of removal of the outer electron would be of no influence on the configuration of the inner electrons. theorem from a measurement of the change of mo- According to the above considerations regarding the mentum of the microscopeincluding light source and possibilities of definition of the properties of individuals, photographic plateduring the process of observation.
theoretical treatment of the problem of inter- In a judgment of the well - known paradoxes action appears most strikingly. theory by means of relation (1), and those to be expected on ordinary electrodynamics, which is of exactly the same type as the analogous connection, discussed in Part I, in case of ordinary conditionally periodic systems which allow of separation of variables. theory to account directly for certain general features of the properties of the elements, a closer development of the ideas of the quantum theory was necessary in order to account for these properties in further detail. those relating to the atom's stability and its ability to emit line spectra.
time description of quantum phenomena, we From our point of view we now see that the meet with well-known new paradoxes, for the wording of the above-mentioned criterion of elucidation of which further features of the physical reality proposed by Einstein, Podolsky interaction between the objects and the meas- and Rosen contains an ambiguity as regards the uring instruments must be taken into account. tinuous exeffange of energy between atoms required by In addition, SchrOdinger could associate with the solu- the guantum ppstulate, from the point of View of the tions of the wave equation a continuous distribution of wave theory, is replaced by a simple resonance pheno- charge and current which, if applied to a characteristic menon.
tion in space and time, while in the change The essence of this consideration is the in- of the motion of the electron demanded by the evitability of the quantum postulate in the estima- quantum postulate one seemingly is dealing with tion of the possibilities of measurement. tion laws, the rational formulation of which has been a fundamental problem for the symbolical 3. tivity theory has taught us that the convenience This postulate implies a renunciation as regards of distinguishing sharply between space and time the causal space-time co-ordination of atomic pro- rests solely on the smallness of the velocities cesses. to be remembered when considering the passage This result was considered by Heisenberg as a of swiftly moving particles through an atom.
to cases where the recoil of the nucleus in collision did not have serious effects. to other matrices, the indices of which are the possible In a judgment of the well-known paradoxes which this values of the space coordinates. to prove the equivalence of the formul (2) and (6) for any system governed by ordinary mechanics. to that stationary state having the least energy. to the binding of a first electron by the doubly charged nucleus of this atom. to the first pair of state III. to the first state of I., while the Sharp and Diffuse series correspond to transitions respectively from states I. and II. to the paradoxical character of the problem of the nature According to the classical concepts, the description of of light and of material particles.
to the slow variations of the orbit, on the basis of the usual theory of perturbations well known from celestial mechanics. to the view presented here, in free space, and free material particles. tum theory of the concepts of position and Before concluding I should still like to empha- momentum, it is in the last resort this circum- size the bearing of the great lesson derived from stance which entails the complementary relation- general relativity theory upon the question of ship between any detailed time account of atomic physical reality in the field of quantum theory.
tween the particle and the diaphragm will, Let us begin with the simple case of a particle together with the reaction of the particle on the passing through a slit in a diaphragm, which other bodies, pass into this common support, may form part of some more or less complicated and we have thus voluntarily cut ourselves off experimental arrangement. uncertainty in the description of the object. under the above title A. interaction with the system under investigation. uranium, at energies of the order of 6 000 000 volts. variation of the effect with velocity, scattering material, and angle, etc.
very interesting way in showing how the explanation of Just as these concepts are complementary to the spppg- the specific heat of hydrogen, hitherto beset with diffi- time description, the appropriateness of the ordinary culties, can be harmonized with the assumption that four-dimensional description as well as its symbolical the proton is endowed with a moment of momentum of utilization in the quantum theory would, as Klein em- the same magnitude as that of the electron. viduals with respect to a Co-ordinate system fixed in the Strictly speaking, the idea of observation belongs to ordinary way by means ofsolid bodies and unperturbable the causal smce-time wgy of descnption. w 2..Emission of Line-spectra.
we are bound to use the general solution of the As already mentioned, the means for a general wave equation which is obtained by superposi- consistent utilisation of the classical concepts in tion of characteristic solutions. we recognize that the position of the individual within the Especially community exhibits in itself multifarious, often mutually exclusive, aspects. when one considers the wonderful progress which Rutherford hitherto had achieved with the help of very modest experimental equipment. where n is an integer and R the y Rydberg constant. where p denotes a generalized component of momentum Ingjudging the applications of these auxiliaryideas, we and q the canonically conjugated variable.
where the relative difference in the properties of neigh- bouring stationary states vanishes asymptotically and where in statistical applications the discontinuities may 70 THE ATOMIC THEORY DEVELOPMENT OF ATOMIC THEORY 71 be disregarded. which in the quantum-mechanical formalism is a direct consequence of the commutation relation for any pair of conjugate variables. which is yet large compared with the small effects on the motion, proportional to the square of the intensity of the first perturbing field, which were neglected in the preceding calculations.
which they are subjected, and the idea suggests I shall not here enter further into these purely itself that the minimal freedom we must allow the logical points, but will only add that the essence organism in this respect is just large enough to of the analogy considered is the typical relation permit it, so to say, to hide its ultimate secrets of complementarity existing between the subfrom us. will be due to the presence of a second external field small compared with the first, also in this case may be discussed directly by means of the considerations at the end of 2. with a senior scholarship in mathematics and the following year he took his M.A.
with an abstraction, from which no unambiguous In measuring momentum with the aid of the information concerning the previous or future Doppler effectwith due regard to the Compton behaviour of the individual can be obtained. with several slits parallel to the first and a photographic plate, is rigidly fixed to a support which defines the space frame of reference. with several slits parallel to the here concerned. with the aid of subsequent observations is hence impossible in such a case. with which the change in wave-length of the scattered . within its scope would appear as a completely Such an argumentation, however, would rational description of physical phenomena, such hardly seem suited to affect the soundness of as we meet in atomic processes.
within the limits of reciprocal accuracy given by Here the contrast with the ordinary way of relation (2). ~ ,h; in conformity with Rydberg's theory. ~ o w considering t h e binding of a single electron by a helium nucleus, we get, l,utting E = 2 e in the expressions (3) on page 5, and proceeding in exactly the same way as above, r=-~-k@ .r12 _ h8 *~ ~ TI 2 " I f we in this formula put. ~ o w, we must assume that the amount of energy to be used in removing the second electron from a helium atom is much greater than that to be used in removing the first. ~-2=1 or r2 2, ~e get series of lines in the extreme ultraviolet.
~t mag be in the interest of international understanding to record some of the ideas which at that time \lrere the object of serious For this purpose> I may quote from a memorandum which I submitted to President Roosevelt as a basis for a long conversation which he granted me in Augnst 1944.
